ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2007 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2008 ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 © European Communities, 2008 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
3 4–5 6–7 8–13 14–17 18–25 26–27 28–29 30–35 36–37 38–43 44–45 PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT PRESENTATION, GUIDE, VALUES AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES ROLE AND WORK OF THE COURT PRESENTATION STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION OVERVIEW OF THE COURT'S REPORTS AND OPINIONS CONTINUING THE WORK OF THE COURT IN 2007 AND OF THE OVERVIEW OF HINAUS INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION PERSONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONTENT
PREFACE OF THE PRESIDENT 4 One of the main objectives of the Court and part of its mission to promote transparency and accountability is to bring the Court of Auditors closer to EU citizens.
I am therefore delighted to welcome you as a reader of the first annual activity report of the European Court of Auditors.
The report aims to provide an overall overview of the Court and to report on its activities in 2007, the year in which it celebrates its 30th anniversary as an external auditor of the European Union, which, according to its mandate, contributes to the improvement of EU financial management and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
The Court makes its main contribution through its audits and reports, which enable the audited body to improve its financial management, and assist the discharge authority (European Parliament and Council) in its monitoring of the implementation of the EU budget.
This report gives an overview of the audit reports published in 2007 and highlights the main conclusions regarding the implementation of the 2006 EU budget and the sound financial management of EU funds.
The Court not only reports on the financial management of past years, but also actively contributes to the establishment of an EU financial control framework.
2007 was an important year for EU financial management.
The Court's position is outlined in the section entitled 'The Court's position' in the Court's view on major developments in Member States' accountability and the Court's contribution to the public consultation on budgetary reform launched by the European Commission.
None of the Court's 2007 results would be conceivable without the commitment, know-how and competence of its 850 staff.
Staff are the main capital of a future-oriented authority, which strives for continuous improvement.
This first annual activity report contains details of the Court's reform process, which was launched in 2006 with a self-assessment.
In 2007, progress was made in implementing the resulting Action Plan, and at the end of the year, a so-called peer review procedure was launched, led by a group of auditors of the national audit courts of Canada, Austria, Norway and Portugal.
A first result of this reform process was the following statement on the Court's mission, mission statement, values and strategic objectives, on which the future activities of which the Court will report in due course will be guided.
I wish you much joy in reading the first annual activity report and I hope it will be of benefit to you.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5
6 CONTRACT, GUIDE, VALUES AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES CONTRACT GUIDE The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, he contributes to improving EU financial management, while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
7 VALUES Independence, integrity & impartiality Professionalism Added value Excellence & efficiency Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and its employees.
provide its addressees with appropriate test results, rejecting any form of influence by instructions or pressure from the outside.
Maintaining a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Preparation of relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and supporting documents, taking into account the interests of its addressees and containing important and indicative statements.
To contribute to an effective improvement in the management of the EU budget and contribute to the strengthening of accountability for the management of the EU's financial resources.
Promote team spirit through effective communication.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES In order to fulfil its mandate, the European Court of Auditors has committed itself to the following strategic objectives: Professionalism Output Involved in further development & growth Strong audit methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards for EU funds, cooperation with EU-ORCB, effective ‘Community control framework' to select relevant audit topics, closeness to time, clarity and legibility of reports, quality of economic audits, increasing the impact of the reports Deeper relations with the audited bodies, in order to improve the understanding of the audit process and to improve acceptance of audit results, development of contacts with the European Parliament and the Council as budgetary and discharge authority, effective communication with EU citizens in order to use the experience of the peer review process to strengthen and develop the process, and achieve maximum efficiency, follow-up of an effective and dynamic staff policy; quality vocational training; modernisation of infrastructure; implementation of IT strategies
8 ROLE AND WORK OF THE HOFE WHAT ROLE IS THE HOFE?
The European Union's budget amounts to around EUR 120 billion, representing about 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 Member States.
This represents a small share compared to national budgets.
However, for some Member States, EU funds play an important role in financing public activities, for example, the overall budget volume is approximately the same as in some countries, such as Romania.
The composition of the budget has changed over time, with agriculture and cohesion policy the main areas of expenditure (see Box 1).
The budget is established annually, on the basis of the seven-year financial framework, by the Council, i.e. representatives of the Member States, and by the directly elected European Parliament on a proposal from the European Commission.
The Commission is responsible for the budget, but shares a significant share of the administrative tasks with the Member States, in particular with regard to expenditure on agricultural and cohesion policy.
Depending on the expenditure regime, national authorities may be responsible for defining expenditure strategies, selecting beneficiaries and projects, and making payments.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on the requests made by the beneficiaries themselves, whether farmers or project managers throughout the Union.
9 BOX 1 – HOW DOES THE EU DOES THEIR YELLOWERS?
The EU budget is largely used for purposes other than national budgets, partly due to different fields of responsibility.
For example, the Union is not responsible for social security systems, which usually account for a large part of national expenditure.
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, which usually takes the form of payments to farmers across the Union, has been the main share of budgetary expenditure, albeit at present with a decreasing trend.
In 2008, less than half of the budget is earmarked for the conservation and management of natural resources, mainly for agriculture and rural development.
Since the 1980s, a significant part of the expenditure has been devoted to cohesion – regional and social development – to co-financing a wide range of projects, from road construction in Slovakia to training courses for the unemployed in Denmark.
In 2008, expenditure on sustainable growth, of which the lion's share of cohesion, was estimated at 38% of the budget.
This heading also covers a large part of the EU's funding for research.
Some 6% of the budget is spent on the management of the Community institutions.
EU expenditure Citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1% The European Union as a global player 6% Administration 6% Cohesion – sustainable growth 38% Agriculture – conservation and management of natural resources 49%
Democratic societies need complete and correct public information as a basis for discussion and decision-making, both in order to improve financial management and to ensure accountability.
In its role as external auditor of the EU, the European Court of Auditors ensures that EU funds have been correctly accounted for, regardless of their place of use, and have been spent in accordance with the legislation, with due regard for the optimum use of funds.
The Court's audit results are used by the Commission, Parliament and the Council and by Member States to improve EU financial management.
In addition to the Court's work, many national control authorities are examining EU funds, provided they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
Overview of internal and external control of the EU budget EU level 10 Commission (DG, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing Bodies European Court of Auditors National control authorities National level External control Internal control
What are the audit findings of the Court?The Court applies three different types of audit to 1: audit of the accounts, compliance audit, audit of the accounts, the audit of the audit of the accounts, depending on which of the following three issues is the starting point of the audit: 11 • • • the annual accounts, in all material respects, give an actual picture of the financial situation, results and cash flow for the year, in accordance with the accounting framework in force?
Under the EC Treaty, the Court is obliged to make such a statement, or to give an opinion, on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The annual Statement of Assurance is generally known under the French acronym DAS (Déclaration d'Assurance).
1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
The Court shall carry out its audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with International Audit Principles (ISAs), which shall apply both in the public and in the private sector.
The Court, together with the national control authorities, actively participates in the further development of international auditing standards promoted by the standardisation bodies (Intosai, IFAC).
In order to ensure that payments are consistent with the legal and regulatory frameworks, the Court relies on the results of both its investigation of the monitoring and control systems to prevent, detect and correct the errors of legality and regularity, and of a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
If systems are reviewed and found to be reliable, the number of operations that the Court is required to examine to reach a sound conclusion on their legality and regularity shall be reduced accordingly.
In selecting issues for its audit activities, the Court seeks to identify audit areas in which the greatest impact is to be expected in terms of the potential for improvement identified in terms of the economy, economy and effectiveness of EU expenditure.
12 2 Intosai (International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions) International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions – IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) International Association of Auditants.
13 BOX 2 – The Court's PRE-FACE TESTS ON EU BUDGET'S PAYMENTS The Court does not have the necessary resources to examine in detail all the EU budget's operations.
The Court follows these processes up to the final beneficiary of the aid, such as a farmer in southern Germany.
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks, such as the measurement of the size of the agricultural area, in order to determine whether the corresponding information in the aid application corresponds to the actual circumstances.
Population from all agricultural payments The fact that this is a statistical sample allows the results to be extrapolated to the relevant population, i.e. a specific area of revenue or expenditure, and to serve as the basis for an overall audit opinion, together with information derived from the system evaluation.
This chart shows how the Court proceeds to identify operations for the purposes of the in-depth review.
In practice, the Court's sampling procedures are more complex, for example using a two-stage sampling procedure to improve the efficiency of the audit work.
Random withdrawal of a representative sample Payment to an agricultural holding in Germany €€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€
14 GUIDANCE STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION STRUCTURE OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS The Court of Auditors acts as a collegiate body of 27 members, each of whom has one member per Member State.
As shown in the organizational chart (see page 17), there are four thematic audit groups covering different budgetary areas (preserving and managing natural resources – structural policies, transport, research and energy – external policies – own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies).
The fifth audit group (CEAD or coordination, communication, evaluation, quality assurance and development) is responsible for "horizontal issues such as coordination in the field of assurance, quality assurance, the development of the Court's audit methodology and the general dissemination of the Court's audit results and reports.
In addition, a Management Committee composed of members of all audit groups shall be responsible for preparing for all administrative matters requiring a formal Court decision.
MEMBERS The members of the Court shall be appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, for a term of six years in accordance with the proposals made by each Member State and shall be eligible for re-election.
In addition to its function within the College, which is responsible for the final decision-making on audits and opinions as well as on further strategic and administrative issues, each member is responsible for its specific tasks, primarily in the audit area.
The member then presents the report in the audit group or in the Court and after its adoption in the European Parliament, the Council and other interested third parties.
With the accession of Bulgaria and Romania on 1 January 2007, the Court welcomed two new members, Ms Nadeschda Sandolova and Mr Ovidiu Ispir.
One year later, on 1 January 2008, the Court added three new members, Mr Michel Cretin (France), Mr Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) and Mr Harald Noack (Germany), as the term of office of its predecessors had expired.
In addition, the Council extended the term of office of four members (Greece, the Netherlands, Austria and the United Kingdom) for a further six years.
The President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Manuel da Silva Caldeira (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCCKIEEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (EE) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Joseph BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri Grethen (BE) Henri Grethen (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNAZAL (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKKEVIVIČIA (LT) Irena PETRUŠKEVIČIA (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISSPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUISNN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONČIČIČ (SI) (SI) I)
16 THE PRESIDENT The European Court of Auditors is headed by the President, who is elected by the members of the Court for a term of three years, with the right of re-election.
The role of the President is that of a Primus inter Pares.
The President shall represent the Court in all its external relations, in particular in its relations with the discharge authority, with the other institutions of the European Union and the supreme audit authorities of the Member States and beneficiary countries.
On 16 January 2008, Mr. Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, the Portuguese Member, was elected 11th President of the Court.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL The Secretary-General shall be the highest-ranking member of the institution and shall be appointed by the Court for a period of six years and shall be eligible for re-election.
The Secretary-General shall be responsible for the Court's staff and staff management, including continuing vocational training and the Translation Directorate, each with one unit per official language (22), with the exception of Gaelic.
The Secretary-General is also under the responsibility of the General Secretariat.
The term of office of the current Secretary-General of the Court, Mr Michel Hervé, was extended on 1 July 2007.
THE HOFE'S PERSONS The staff of the European Court of Auditors are approximately 850 staff (836 on 31 December 2007) and comprise auditors (484), translators (162) and administrative staff.
The Court's auditors have a wide range of training profiles and relevant professional experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular in the fields of accounting, financial management, internal and external audit and the legal and economic sciences.
Like the other EU institutions, the Court employs nationals from all Member States.
18 OVERVIEW OF THE AUDIT REPORTS AND 3 OPINIONS OF THE HOFE The results of the Court's audits of the accounts and compliance audits are usually incorporated in annual reports on the general budget of the EU and on the European Development Funds (EDFs) and in the special annual reports on the Union's agencies and bodies.
The results of the audit work will be published in the course of the year in the form of special reports.
The Court also publishes opinions on draft acts affecting financial management.
ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE 2006 BUDGET ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET As the Court has repeatedly stated in its annual reports on the implementation of the EU's general budget, adequate and appropriate internal control systems established by the Commission and the Member States are key to ensuring proper EU budget management.
In recent years, the Court has recognised the Commission's efforts to promote and apply improved internal control and management procedures, both in terms of the reliability of the EU's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the operations declared therein.
The 2006 Annual Report continued this tradition by identifying areas where there is – sometimes a significant – need for improvement and by identifying large areas of expenditure where the situation is still unsatisfactory.
The Court concluded that the ‘final accounts of the European Communities, showing the implementation of the 2006 EU budget, give an actual picture of the financial situation and the results of the Communities in all material respects, except for the allocation of excessive amounts in the accounts and in the pre-financing budget in the balance sheet.
Further improvements are therefore considered necessary in order to ensure that the newly introduced accrual accounts are fully operational and that their full potential as a reliable management and control tool can be exploited.
3 This section is used to introduce the Court's reports and opinions to the Court and to the Court's summary of the content.
More detailed information can be found in the full text of the Court documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after their adoption.
The Court gives a negative opinion on the legality and regularity of the Court's audit and concludes that these expenditure areas continue to be a major source of errors to the areas of expenditure in the ‘Final accounts of the European Communities', in which most payments are made – agriculture [mainly non-integrated management and control (IPCoS) expenditure], structural measures, internal policies and large parts of external policies.
In the case of payments in these areas, the monitoring and control systems could only partially limit the risk of errors of legality and regularity in the transactions.
The Court stresses that complicated or unclear eligibility criteria or complex legislation have had a significant impact on the legality and regularity of the transactions.
However, the Court noted a significant decrease in the estimated overall error rate in agricultural operations, and concluded that, where properly applied, the IACS is an effective system to reduce the risk of irregular expenditure.
In addition, the Court noted that the transactions underlying the commitments and the revenue were not significantly affected, including payments related to administrative expenditure, the bulk of the pre-accession strategy and parts of external policies (see Box 3). 19
20 BOX 3 – SCOPE SCOPE OVERVIEW ON THE LEGALITY AND LEGAL ASSESSMENT OF THE PROPOSALS SUBMITTED BY AREA OF EXPENDITURE The table summarises the overall assessment of the monitoring and control systems, as set out in the relevant chapters of the 2006 Annual Report, and provides a rough overview of the Court's audit findings in relation to representative samples of operations.
The systems are classified as "partly satisfactory" if some control arrangements are found to work properly, while others are not.
As a result, they may not be able, overall, to limit the errors in the underlying transactions to a tolerable level.
The report draws attention to a number of shortcomings in the operation of the monitoring and control systems.
The table merely highlights the key statements, but the details cannot be fully described.
Readers are advised to take the full analysis from the main part of the 2006 Annual Report.
Specific assessments in the Annual Report for the financial year 2006 Common agricultural policy Operation of monitoring and control systems Error margin Own resources Total IACS CAP IACS not InVeKoS not InVeKoS structural policy Internal policies Central services and delegations External policies Pre-accession strategy Phare/ISPA implementing bodies Sapard Administrative expenditures Operation of monitoring and control systems in satisfactory part satisfactory not satisfactory Error margin of less than 2 % (below the materiality threshold) between 2 % and 5 % above 5 %
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (EDF) In 2007, the Court also published an annual report on the European Development Funds (EDF).
While the Court of Auditors was able to give an audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts of the EDFs, the audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions on the basis of payments authorised under the responsibility of the delegations in the beneficiary countries was limited in view of the substantial error rate in these transactions.
Other ANNUAL REPORTS A further 28 special annual reports on the European agencies and other decentralised bodies and an annual report on the audit of the efficiency of the management of the European Central Bank were also published in 2007. 21
SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 2007 The Court published nine special reports in 2007.
The reports covered investigations into financial management issues in many different areas, ranging from VAT cooperation (No. 8/2007) to capacity building in countries as distant as Angola and Vietnam (No. 6/2007).
The Court's tests revealed problems of various kinds with various consequences.
The weaknesses identified by the Court in relation to the building expenditure of the EU institutions (No 2/2007) make clear that not all EU funds have been used in this area in a meaningful way.
The deficiencies identified in the report on the monitoring, inspection and sanctioning systems relating to the rules on the conservation of Community fisheries resources (No 7/2007) could have serious consequences not only for the aquatic resources but also for the future of the fisheries industry.
Despite the different types of use of resources in the various areas of the EU budget, the Court reports reveal several common issues, which can be outlined as follows: 22 • • • Although the use of funds should be both rapid and efficient, efforts to achieve these two objectives at the same time may be both tense.
This is the subject of the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No 1/2007) and the report on the Commission's management of the CARDS programme in the countries of the Western Balkans (No 5/2007).
Although planning does not guarantee effectiveness, it is of considerable importance.
Questions relating to strategic and long-term planning were raised in the reports on the building expenditure of the EU institutions (No 2/2007) and on the evaluation of the EU framework programmes in the field of research and technological development (RTD) (No 9/2007) as well as in two reports on external assistance, one relating to the CARDS programme (No 5/2007) and the other to the effectiveness of technical assistance in the framework of capacity-building (No 6/2007).
The Commission's evaluations are a core element of its performance management system when assessing performance and indicating, if necessary, the need for improvement.
Where evaluations take place at an early stage of the programming cycle, this means that progress is insufficient and that insufficient relevant data is available for evaluation purposes.
On the other hand, the possibilities of making timely changes during the current period, and improvements before the start of the next, may be reduced if evaluations are made at a later date.
The issue of the correct timing of evaluations was addressed both in the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No 1/2007) and in the report on the R & D evaluation (No 9/2007).
23 • • Evaluation as well as testing are more difficult to carry out when the objectives of the spending programmes are unclear, which was another issue addressed in the latter two reports.
The management and controls of EU expenditure are subject to complex regulations, which must be clearly and unambiguously formulated to ensure that the funds are used for the intended purposes.
The existence of clear definitions and rules is crucial if funds are to be collected or used as planned.
This was the subject of the reports on the European Refugee Fund (No. 3/2007) and on the checks and substitution of the Member States on the export of agricultural products (No. 4/2007).
The lack of common definitions is one of the factors which can affect the completeness, comparability and reliability of the data from the different Member States.
This can have consequences if the data becomes the basis for decisions such as the allocation of funds.
24 Special reports Special report No 1/2007 Special report No 2/2007 Special report No 3/2007 Special report No 4/2007 Special report No 5/2007 Special report No 6/2007 Special report No 7/2007 Special report No 8/2007 Special report No 9/2007 Implementation of the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds 2000-2006 Building expenditure of the institutions Management of the European Refugee Fund (2000-2004) Goods and substitution checks on exports of products for which reimbursement is granted Management of the CARDS programme by the Commission Effectiveness of technical assistance within the framework of capacity-building Monitoring, inspection and sanctioning systems on the rules for the conservation of Community fisheries resources Administrative cooperation in the field of VAT Evaluation of EU framework programmes in research and technological development – Could the Commission improve its approach?
OPINIONS PUBLISHED IN 2007 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management by giving opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
These opinions are required as part of the adoption procedure of financial regulations 4 or may be submitted at the request of one of the other institutions of the Community 5. Moreover, the Court may, on its own initiative, issue opinions.
The Court's opinions may address issues relating to certain areas of expenditure, such as the two opinions of 2007 relating to new Regulations for the European Development Funds (Nos 2/2007 and 9/2007).
However, they may also cover broader EU financial management issues such as the Court's opinion on annual summaries, national declarations and the audit work of national audit bodies (No 6/2007).
Opinions are based on the Court's expertise on EU financial management in the course of the years in the course of its audits, and in some cases reference is made to certain audits.
For example, in its opinion on ensuring the correct application of the customs and agricultural rules (No 3/2007), the Court refers to a recommendation in a previous special report, according to which the Commission should take measures to improve the reliability of sources of information on fraud.
The need for simplification is a recurring issue in the Court's opinions (see Opinion No 7/2007 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities).
In a 2007 opinion (No 6/2007), the Court presented its opinion on the annual summaries as well as on the so-called national declarations submitted voluntarily by some Member States on their own initiative.
This opinion is discussed in more detail in the section on the Court's position.
Article 279 of the Treaty.
Article 248(4).
Most of the Court's opinions have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union and are available on the Court's website.
26 CONTINUING CONTINUING AND EFFECTIVENESS Public financial control plays a key role in modern democratic societies in terms of efficient financial management.
The audit activities shall be held accountable to the addressees at the end of the information chain, in this case to the European citizens, whether their taxpayers' money is spent in a correct and appropriate manner.
In this respect, public financial control is a central element of accountability and is a useful basis for a public debate.
In this respect, the Court's work has considerable potential for impact.
The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for decision-makers in the institutions concerned – in the European context in the first place the Commission, the Parliament, the Council and the Member States.
On the basis of this information, they may take measures, with or without reference to the conclusions of the examination.
Although the Court's audit activity has its main effect on its published reports, it has its own effect throughout the audit process.
In particular, all audits result in the submission of detailed audit findings, which are sent to the audited body in order to confirm the accuracy of the Court's observations.
The final text of the report is also subject to a 'contradictory procedure'.
The responses of the audited body – notably the Commission – will be published together with the reports.
In the answers, the audited body often acknowledges the problems identified by the Court and sets out the steps it intends to take to remedy them.
After completion of the audit work and publication of a report, the audit results will be evaluated and used by the Parliament and the Council to carry out their political task of monitoring the use of the budget.
In the context of the annual discharge procedure, the Court reports form the basis for the Council's recommendation and for Parliament's decision.
The 2006 discharge procedure focused on the Court's conclusions on structural measures.
In its 2006 discharge resolution, Parliament directly refers to an action plan proposed by the Commission as a direct consequence of the conclusions of the Court's annual report, and calls for quarterly reports on its implementation.
Parliament also calls for a better understanding of the corrective measures taken to address the errors and weaknesses.
The special reports will also be taken into account in the discharge procedure.
However, in view of the fact that they are published in the course of the year, the presentation of the special reports and the debate on them have usually taken place earlier in the meetings of Parliament and the Council.
A good example of a possible follow-up measure is provided by the recent special report on building expenditure (No. 2/2007).
Indeed, Parliament had already entrusted its administration with the preparation of a report on the feasibility of creating a European Building Office entrusted with the responsibility of building and maintaining the buildings of the institutions and institutions of the European Union.
The Court's audit report on controls carried out by Member States on the export of agricultural products (No 4/2007) can be given as a further example.
The Council and the Commission responded promptly to the recommendations made by the Court by amending the existing legislation.
The impact of the audit reports can be enhanced by their thematicity in the relevant media, which gives greater attention and stimulates public debate.
The media is the most direct source of information for citizens.
In general, media coverage for the Court's annual report is quite comprehensive, but some special reports have also been followed with interest by the press.
For example, the fisheries report (No 7/2007) has received great attention in the media.
An extraordinary Fisheries Council was convened to discuss the Court's report, and the Commission initiated a procedure which may result in amendments to the legislation to address the shortcomings identified.
This is an example of a report which, due to its relevance and topicality, has made a particularly valuable contribution to the decision-making process.
This section gives some guidance on the impact of the Court reports published in 2007.
More detailed information on the follow-up to the Court's previous observations is given in the respective chapters of its annual report.
The Court's most frequently remark in its last annual report is that, despite the measures taken, the shortcomings in the previous year have only been partially rectified.
Opinions should also be considered when considering the impact of the Court's work.
It is the intention of the Court to analyse to an increasing extent the long-term implications of its work – both its audits and its opinions.
This can be illustrated by the example set out in Box 4.
27 BOX 4 – THE COURT'S OPINION ON THE Single Audit Over the years, the Court has published a number of opinions, showing ways of developing the general internal control system for the EU budget.
The opinion on the "Unique Review" (No 2/2004) in 2004 made a major contribution in this respect.
In this opinion, the Court proposes, the definition and implementation of the entire internal control system into a single integrated control framework, which includes common principles and objectives and ensures that costs and benefits are proportionate.
The opinion on the ‘Single audit' developed into a reference document for the Commission, but also for the Court, for example in 2007 in its comments on the definition of effective and efficient internal control in the updated implementing rules of the Financial Regulation (Opinion No 1/2007).
The integrated audit approach is reflected in the Commission's 2006 Integrated Internal Control Framework Action Plan.
The Commission has taken steps to emphasise the role and responsibilities of Member States in the area of internal control, including the new obligation to present annual summaries of audit opinions, declarations and the audits carried out in accordance with the regulations applicable to each area of expenditure.
28 THE POSITION OF THE COURT'S NATIONAL SUMMARY AND DECLARATIONS The Commission and Member States have taken initiatives to strengthen Member States' involvement in the accountability cycle for EU funds.
In part, the aim is to address the problem of the main error rates, with regard to the legality and regularity of the main areas of expenditure in the budget, particularly in areas where the Commission and the Member States share the management of the budget.
Significant recent developments include the obligation for Member States to submit annual summaries of available audit results and statements, the voluntary initiatives of some Member States to submit national declarations, and the decision of some national control authorities to draw up audit reports on the management of EU funds.
In its opinion No 6/2007, the Court considers that, where properly implemented, all these elements could improve the management and control of EU funds.
The opinion sets out the conditions under which these elements can provide added value and can be used by the Court in compliance with the requirements in international audit principles.
As annual summaries form an integral part of the internal control system, the Court will assess the extent to which they improve the functioning of the internal control system through its usual audit procedures.
Annual summaries can lead to better overall control of EU funds in areas of shared management insofar as they highlight strengths and weaknesses.
National declarations are based on voluntary initiatives by certain Member States and are made at the highest level and made to national parliaments.
Although they do not in themselves constitute conclusive audit evidence, they can be seen as a novel element of internal control and provide valuable information on the implementation of the EU budget.
The Court recognises the potential benefits of national declarations and audit work in the Member States to raise awareness of the importance of internal control of EU funds.
The audit work carried out by the national control authorities (national audit reports) on the legality and regularity of the EU expenditure or on the national declarations could provide audit evidence to the Court if the Court is satisfied of the suitability and quality of the audit work in accordance with international audit principles.
In this case, the Court will take into account the records issued by national control authorities in the planning and execution of its own audits.
National declarations and national audit reports contain statements on control systems.
National declarations may also contain certain judgments on the legality and regularity of the transactions.
Experience shows that the main risk to the legality and regularity of the transactions is the reliability of the information provided by the beneficiaries when applying for EU funds, and less in the way in which that information is processed by the Member States and the Commission.
The declaration that systems work as required in EU regulations cannot in itself guarantee the legality and regularity of the transactions in question.
Recognising the need for a stronger role for national control authorities in the overall context of accountability of EU expenditure, the Contact Committee of the EU Supreme Audit Authorities has set up a Working Group for the harmonisation of audit standards and standards tailored in accordance with the EU context.
Joint approaches and methods of examination will increase the Court's ability to rely on the work of the national control authorities, provided that the quality of that work is directly demonstrated.
REVIEW OF THE EU BUDGET In September 2007, the Commission published a consultation paper to launch an open debate on EU finances as part of a far-reaching budgetary review.
The Court made its contribution to the debate at the beginning of April 2008 in which it identified the key principles to be taken into account in the design of new programmes in order to provide European added value in terms of clarity of objectives, the pursuit of simplification, the sense of reality, transparency and accountability.
Among other things, the Court recommended that the following aspects be taken into account: • • • the orientation of expenditure programmes not after input, but after output; better use of the approach of the acceptable risk of the design and adoption of expenditure programmes; degree of discretionary discretion to be granted to national or regional authorities in the management of expenditure programmes and accounting; and whether VAT own resources are still a useful component of the own resources system, the review of all the compensatory mechanisms in line with the guiding principles of the own resources system – justice, transparency, cost-effectiveness, simplicity and contributory power of each Member State. 29
30 Audit work carried out by the Court in 2007 and by the Court in 2007 The Court shall present its future audit work each year in a work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Budgetary Control Committee and available to the public on the Court's website.
The Court monitors the implementation of the work programme as a basis for improvements in subsequent years.
In 2007, there was a significant increase in the number of specific annual reports adopted on European agencies and other decentralised bodies.
The number of special reports and opinions was similar to those of previous years.
The annual reports on the general budget and on the European Development Funds have been published in accordance with the plan.
Results (number) 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special reports 10 6 11 9 Annual reports (including EDF) 1 1 1 1 Special annual reports 23 20 23 29 Opinions 2 11 8 9 In 2007 the Court first applied its new assurance model (audit assurance model) in the field of audit and compliance audit (audit compliance compliance) in order to achieve sufficiently robust results in the most efficient way possible.
The Court also decided to provide more detailed information on the results of its statement of assurance, in particular on the results of the verification of individual operations.
The Court considers that this, together with a schematic presentation of the results of the system evaluations, provides useful information for monitoring purposes, with a view to measuring progress in the area of financial management.
ACTION PLAN AND PEER-REVIEW PROCEDURE The Court is constantly seeking improvements in all aspects of its work.
In 2005, the Court decided to submit to a peer review procedure.
In this context, senior officials from a small number of senior audit authorities assess the organisation or the results of a sister body on the basis of professional standards and on the basis of their respective professional experience.
As all Supreme Audit Institutions have comparable tasks, peer review procedures can provide a very valuable contribution to improving audit bodies.
In the course of the preparation of the peer review procedure, the Court carried out a self-assessment in 2006, in which the institution was given the opportunity to examine its strengths and weaknesses.
In 2007, the Court adopted an action plan to address the weaknesses identified.
The plan comprised a total of 23 measures, of which six were the subject of task forces involving the Court's members and staff from different fields and hierarchy levels of the institution: 31 1. Mission statement, mission, strategic objectives, and planning 2. Governance structure (managing), structure and organisation 3. Internal performance indicators 4. Employees and internal communication 5. External stakeholders and communication approaches, external communication strategy 6. Improving reporting quality The results of these task forces presented in 2007 included new declarations of mission, mission statement and values, and strategic objectives for the Court, a new strategy and guidelines for internal communication, and a report on ways to improve reporting quality. The peer review process started at the end of 2007.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE IMPROVEMENT OF AUDIT A number of the strategic objectives adopted concern the output of the institution.
The Court strives to make the impact of its audits more visible by the selection of relevant topics, the closeness to time, and the clearer and more reader-friendly design of its reports.
It has also started to increase the number of its impact assessments and to improve their quality.
In 2007, considerable efforts were made to further develop the methodological basis of the Court's work as a vital prerequisite for high-quality audit work.
A new manual for accounting and compliance audits was developed with a high workload and is due to be completed in 2008.
The Court's new audit manual was adopted at the end of 2006 and was thus available for the first time to examiners in 2007.
Additional guidelines were developed and several seminars and training sessions were held to further improve the quality of the Court's work on the audit.
The Court also set new ambitious objectives for the use of information technologies.
In the new IT strategy adopted in 2007, the Court intends to increase its capacity to carry out IT audits and to make the use of computer-aided audit techniques (CAATs) to make auditing accounting and accounting auditing common practice.
It is important that the amount and quality of the output of the farm can be properly assessed.
The Court is in the process of developing performance indicators that should allow it to provide a wide range of performance data in future annual activity reports.
For the future, the Court plans to develop a methodology to assess the cost-effectiveness of the institution. 32
33 30th anniversary of the Court In 2007, the European Court of Auditors celebrated its 30th anniversary as an external audit body of the European Union.
The celebrations began with an increased presence of the Court (seminars, information stands, etc.) in most capitals of the European Union in the context of the activities of the 2007 European Day.
On 17 October 2007, an exhibition was also opened entitled "30 years of Court of Auditors", which included a series of thematic display panels, a sound exhibition with more than 150 photos and video excerpts, and numerous documents.
The Luxembourg central bank issued a silver commemorative coin on this occasion.
On 18 October 2007, the European Court of Auditors organised a seminar entitled ‘The Future of Public Financial Control in the EU' in which a number of high-level experts from EU circles and the institution's executives took part.
IMPROVING UNAUDITIONAL ASPECTS AT THE HOF Many of the tasks set out in the Action Plan relate to communication, to which greater efforts were devoted in 2007.
Among other things, a new website was put into operation and information material was published on the annual report in a more accessible format and the Court approved a new procedure for presenting its special reports to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.
Other developments, mostly directly or partly related to the Action Plan, related to the modernisation of the Court's accounting system and new staff and IT policy documents.
The Court also started to modernise its information systems in the areas of audit, translation, knowledge and communication, management information and personnel.
In addition, in 2007 the Court made progress in preparing for a second extension of its main building, which is necessary in view of the recent and planned increase in staff.
AUDIT WORK TO BE TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN 2008 7 As in previous years, the Court will, in addition to its annual report on the EU's general budget, present an annual report on European Development Funds and special annual reports on European agencies and other bodies.
The EU's budget is budgeted in seven-year cycles, so-called financial frameworks.
2007 was the first year of the new financial framework, focusing on the implementation of policy strategies.
The Court takes this opportunity to take a closer look at an earlier innovation, namely the Commission's conversion to activity-related budgeting and activity-related management, and the breakdown of the budget into 31 policy areas with around 220 activities.
The annual report for the financial year 2007 will be broken down into categories of policy areas largely but not entirely in line with the new headings of the financial framework.
Box 5 gives a breakdown by audit group of the selected audit tasks that are completed or are close to completion and on which special reports are expected to be published in 2008 or early 2009.
34 7 Fuller and more detailed information on the future work of the Court is provided in the Court's 2008 work programme on our website (www.eca.europa.eu).
35 BOX 5 Conservation and management of natural resources Implementation of the milk quota scheme in the Member States that joined the EU on 1 May 2004 Management of EU support for the public storage of cereals Clearance of accounts for the common agricultural policy Structural policy measures, transport, research and energy Assessment and evaluation of major investment projects in the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods The EU Solidarity Fund – How quickly, effectively and flexibly does it work?
The Intelligent Energy – Europe Programme (2003-2006) The effectiveness of expenditure under Structural Fund measures on waste water treatment in the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods The Instrument for Structural Policies for Pre-Accession (ISPA) 2000-2006 Are executive agencies an appropriate instrument for the implementation of the EU budget?
External policies European Commission rehabilitation assistance after the tsunami and Hurricane Mitch Effectiveness of EU assistance to Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice Own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies, internal policies Binding tariff information (CCTAs) How do the Union agencies achieve results?
36 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION COOPERATION WITH THE EU's NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS IN ACCOUNTS According to the EC Treaty, the European Court of Auditors has carried out its audit in the EU's ‘Liaison with the Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities (ORCBs), while the Treaty of Amsterdam has subsequently added: ‘The Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies, while respecting their independence, are working together with confidence.' The Treaty of Nice added to this regulation by explicitly inviting the Court of Auditors, in the 18th Declaration of the Final Act, to establish a Committee of Contacts with the national audit bodies in which all the Presidents of the SAIs and the Court meet each year to discuss matters of common interest.
The ongoing contacts are maintained by liaison officers appointed by the individual SAIs.
Working groups have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2007, a delegation from the Court attended the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the European Union SAIs in Helsinki, hosted by the Finnish Court of Auditors on 3 and 4 December.
The meeting focused on risk management, acceptable risk and integrated internal control system for management of EU funds, and discussed the role of SAIs in this area.
The Court will host the next meeting of the Contact Committee on 1 and 2 December 2008.
Two liaison officers meetings were held in 2007 in preparation for the Contact Committee meeting.
The first meeting was held in The Hague on 23 and 24 April and the second was held in Luxembourg on 11 and 12 October under the chairmanship of the European Court of Auditors.
Both meetings discussed recent developments in EU financial management and discussed the work of the Task Force "Cooperation" dealing with the Contact Committee itself, its way of working and its possibilities for improvement, and in this context proposals were put forward for a more efficient way of working.
The meeting also dealt with the activities of the various working and expert groups set up by the Contact Committee to deal with specific issues of common interest.
The Court took part in meetings of the network of candidate countries and candidate countries "in spe" (Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey).
The Presidents of the SAIs of the candidate countries and candidate countries "in spe and the European Court of Auditors met in Skopje (former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) on 11 and 12 June 2007.
An important aspect of all efforts to improve practical cooperation in the audit of EU funds concerns the audit principles used.
Against this background, in 2006 the Contact Committee decided to set up a working group chaired by one of the members of the Court, Mr Josef Bonnici, who "should develop common audit standards and comparable audit standards based on the internationally recognised audit principles and adapted to the EU context."
The first meetings of the European Court of Auditors were held in Luxembourg in 2007.
In December 2007, a progress report was submitted to the Helsinki Contact Committee to the working group and a resolution was adopted.
OTHER INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court continued its active participation and participation in the improvement of international audit principles through its membership in European and international organisations for public financial control bodies, namely Eurosai and Intosai.
Within the framework of the Eurosai, the Court is represented in the Environmental Working Group and in the IT Working Group and participates in the Eurosai Training Committee.
The Court hosted a seminar on "Analysis of SAI problems in Luxembourg on 17 and 18 April 2007 and a seminar on "Business Audit – Where do we stand?" from 4 to 6 December 2007.
Since the Court became a full member of the Intosai in 2004, he has been actively involved in the Subcommittee for Guidelines for Auditing Accounting (FAS), the Subcommittee for Auditing Compliance with Legal Standards (CAS) and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits (PAS).
The Court participated in all FAS meetings held in 2007 and provided active contributions to the published and treated guidelines.
The FAS designated the ERH representative (Mr Jesús Lázaro Cuenca) as one of the FAS representatives for the project of the Steering Committee of the Committee for Technical Standards on Quality of Examination. The Court also took part in the CAS meeting in January 2007 in New Delhi.
The Court's Translation Directorate also provided resources for the linguistic revision of a document in Spanish and German.
In addition, the Court took part in the XIX Intosai Congress (Incosai) in Mexico from 5 to 10 November 2007, which discussed two main topics: "Indebtedness, administration, accountability and audit", and "Evaluation systems of economic efficiency in the light of generally accepted key indicators – targets and performance indicators."
In 2008, the Court will continue its active participation in the working groups, seminars and meetings of Eurosai and Intosai.
37 Contact Committee in Helsinki, December 2007
38 PERSONAL PERSONAL POLICY The Court's most important capital is its staff.
They have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
In its recent modernisation of personnel policy, the Court focused on recruitment, training, career development and the improvement of working conditions.
SHARE OF MEN AND WOMEN As of 31 December 2007, the proportion of men and women in active employment of the 836 employees (officials and temporary and contract staff but without members, seconded national experts and trainees) was almost the same.
As the graph below shows, the proportion of women employed in the Court has increased since 2001 as a result of the Court's efforts to achieve a gender balance.
Men's and women's share of the Court's staff 46 % 12/2001 54 % WOMEN MEN 50 % 12/2007 50 %
The graph below presents an analysis of the share of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2007.
Like the other European institutions, the Court pursues a policy of equal opportunities in terms of human resources management and recruitment and recognises the need for a more active promotion of the promotion of a greater number of women to the higher management levels of the Court.
13 of the 56 directors and department/head of department (23%) are women, an increase of 3% compared to 2006.
Most of them are employed in the Directorate of Translation and the Administrative Services.
12/2006 12/2006 M 67 % F 20 % 12/2006 12/2007 M 77 % 12/2006 M 80 % 12/2007 12/2007 M 64 % F 23 % 39 F 68% M 32 % M 62% W 68% F 68 % Councillors – Secretaries (AST-level) F 33 % F 36 % REPRESENTATION WOMEN MEN Boardlors – Secretaries (AST-level) Audits/Administrative Boards (AD-level) Directors and/or Head of Division Financial Audit/Administrative Boards (AD-level) Directors and Head of Division/Head of Unit The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions, and the staff of both officials and temporary staff.
In 2007, the Court hired 179 employees: 117 officials, 35 temporary staff and 27 contract staff.
This high figure reflects the progress made in 2007 in filling vacancies.
Recruitment depends on the availability of reserve lists of EPSO competitions and on the availability of sufficient applicants; the procedure is sometimes rather lengthy and the result is that an exceptionally high number of vacancies are temporarily available.
The Court is constantly trying to reduce the time limits in the recruitment procedure.
ALTERSPROFILE – CARRIER OBJECTIVES The following graph shows that the Court is a ‘young' institution (63% of employees are younger than 44 years of age).
Among the 102 Court staff aged 55 or over, there are 27 of the 56 directors and department/office heads, which means that, over the next five or ten years, there will be extensive new posts at the upper levels of management.
40 38 68 94 114 81 147 149 ALTER 25-29 45-49 30-34 50-54 35-39 55-59 40-44 20-24 > 60 153 AUDIT SERIES During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to the Member States and to other recipient countries of EU funds to obtain appropriate audit evidence.
The visits are generally for central and local authorities involved in granting, managing and disbursing EU funds, as well as for their final beneficiaries.
The audit teams usually consist of two to three examiners and the length of an audit trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of audit and the distance.
In 2007, travel expenses related to audit trips amounted to EUR 0.49 million (compared to EUR 0.43 million in 2006).
This represents a significant investment to ensure a sufficient audit coverage of all levels and locations of EU funds management.
The graphs below give an overview of the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in 2007 in the EU Member States and outside the Union.
Examination visits to Member States in 2007 50 40 30 20 10 0 Examination visits to candidate countries and other non-Member States in 2007 4 3 2 1 0 41 Serbia and Montenegro Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Germany Portugal Italy Spain Belgium Greece Czech Republic France United Kingdom Denmark Netherlands Ireland Finland Austria Poland Lithuania Hungary Bulgaria Sweden Slovenia Slovakia Romania Latvia Malta Russia Moldova – Ukraine Lesotho – Swaziland Guinea Tunisia Indonesia Bosnia-Herzegovina Albania Togo Sri Lanka Sudan Niger Nicaragua Morocco Madagascar Mali Kenya Ghana
In 2007, the Court's employees completed an average of 12 days of professional training.
The proportion of specialist training activities increased significantly compared to 2006.
The main developments in the field of training include the introduction of training courses on the Court's audit manual and related guidelines, on the Commission's accounting rules, on the use of accounting rules, on SAP financial systems, and on other IT and IT audit applications.
Language courses accounted for 52% of the total number of training days in 2007.
The Court has adopted a general guidelines for further training for the years 2008-2011, which provides for the development of further training in the coming years, focusing in particular on the implementation of personal development plans for the individual employees.
The Court also examines the possibility of introducing a European Public Sector Auditor Diploma (PSAD).
Box 6 presents a portrait of the staff of a selected department within the Court in order to give the reader a picture of the work carried out, the staff involved and their background and work experience. 42
43 BOX 6 – THE FISHERIES REPORT – RESULT OF A VIEWED TEAM PERFORMANCE The Court's 2007 report on the monitoring, inspection and sanctions systems in the fisheries sector (Special Report No 7/2007) attracted considerable attention from both policy-makers and the media.
Articles in numerous newspapers as well as the rapid response to both the Commission and the Council proved the relevance and relevance of the report.
The starting point for this success was a team of a dozen Court examiners who worked closely with the rapporteur member, Mr Kikis Kazamias, and his cabinet.
Mr Emmanuel Rauch, a French examiner who has been working at the Court for several years, and his Spanish colleague Mr Alejandro Ballester were the team leaders of the audit during the preparatory phase in autumn 2005.
The audit covered trips to six Member States, from Denmark to Italy, both to central administrative authorities to gain insight into control systems, and to major ports to assess how systems work in practice.
Where the language skills of the team members were insufficient, translators from the language service of the Court provided assistance.
The audit team is very proud to have contributed to the gradual recognition by policy-makers of the serious consequences of the way in which the Community fisheries policy is implemented.
Other audit authorities have also shown interest in the audit, as it provides suggestions and know-how, for example, for an upcoming audit on a similar subject in the Baltic Sea countries.
From left to right, from bottom to top 1st row Alejandro BALLESTER GALLARDO, Financial Audit Board (ES – for 5 years at the Court); Kikis KAZAMIAS, Member of the Court (CY – for 3 years at the Court); Riemer HAAGSMA, Head of Unit (NL – for 30 years at the Court); Emmanuel RAUCH, Chief Financial Audit Board (FR – for 14 years at the Court).
2nd series Jean-Marc Daniele, Cabinet Attaché (FR – for 5 years at the Court); François OSETE, Head of Cabinet (FR/ES – for 23 years at the Court); Robert MARKUS, Chief Audit Board (NL – for 13 years at Court); Bertrand TANGUY, Audit Board (FR – for 3 years at Court); Pietro PURICELLA, Chief Audit Board (IT – for 11 years at Court).
3rd series Anne POULSEN, super-translator (DA – for 16 years at the Court); Maria del Carmen JIMENez, Chief Auditor (ES – for 15 years at Court); Cécile RAMIREZ, Secretary (FR – for 5 years at Court); Neophytos NEOPHYTOU, Cabinet Attaché (CY – for 3 years at Court); Krzysztof ZALEGA, Auditor (PL – for 4 years at Court).
Other team members (not in the photo) Valéria ROTA, Financial Audit Boardlor (IT – for 8 years at the Court); Adeline DOMINGUES, Secretariat Assistant (FR – for 8 years at the Court); Juha VANHATALO, Financial Audit Board (FI – for 3 years at the Court); Paul STAFFORD, Head of Unit (UK – for 18 years at the Court).
44 FINANCIAL INFORMATION BUDGET The Court's budget accounts for about 0.1% of the EU's total budget and 1.8% of the EU's institutions and bodies' administrative appropriations.
Over the last three years, there has been an increase of 17%.
This increase is primarily linked to the consequences of EU enlargements in 2004 and 2007.
A further significant increase in the Court's budget for construction work (the funds for buildings virtually doubled between 2006 and 2008), as future new staff will be accommodated in a second extension (K3 building), the completion of which will be planned for 2013.
Around 72% of the total budget was allocated to staff in 2007.
BUDGET 2006 2007 2008 Utilization of appropriations Final appropriations (in EUR 1 000) Members of the institution 11 350 11 270 12 061 Officials and temporary staff 77 907 82 583 88 712 Other staff and external services 4 223 4 014 4 248 Mission expenses 3 100 3 000 3 212 Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 1 923 2 056 2 286 Title 1 – Total 98 503 102 923 110 519 Buildings 6 287 8 126 12 110 Computer and telecommunications 4 575 5 518 5 879 Equipment and furniture: purchase, hire and maintenance 1 320 1 396 1 147 Current expenditure on services 807 435 425 Meetings and conferences 352 872 876 Information and publications 1 353 1 810 1 813 Title 2 – Total 14 694 18 157 22 250 Court of Auditors – Total 113 197 121 080 132 769
SERVICE INTERNE REVISION The Internal Audit Service of the Court is designed to assist the Court in the implementation of its objectives through the systematic, methodological evaluation of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures.
The Internal Audit Service also makes proposals to increase the efficiency of the Court.
In general it is a question of assessing the performance of individual departments in the implementation of strategies, programmes and measures, with the aim of continuous improvement.
In 2007, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused on the audit of the Court's accounts (including support for the work of the Court's external auditor), the audit of the Court's ex ante audit, the implementation of internal control standards, the Court's recent expansion of the Court's work (the so-called K2 building) and the Court's recruitment procedures.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee, consisting of three members of the Court and one external expert, shall monitor the work of the Internal Auditor and shall ensure the independence of the Court.
It shall also examine and approve the work programme and the internal auditor's reports and entrust them, where necessary, with specific audit tasks.
The Committee met eight times in 2007.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE HOFES The audit opinion of the Court's external auditor for the financial year 2006 presented on 28 September 2007 states: "We believe that the financial statements reflect the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as of 31 December 2006 and the economic performance for the financial year ending on that financial year in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and its implementing rules, the generally accepted accounting principles and the internal rules of the Court of Auditors.
OJ C 292, 5.12.2007.
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2007 Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities 2008 – 45 pp. – 21 x 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8
The Publications Office has a worldwide network of sales agents. You can obtain their contact details by sending a fax to (352) 29 29-42758. http://eca.europa.eu/portal/page/portal/eca_main_pages/splash_page
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS OFFICE FOR OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES Ldring 2985 LUXEMBOURG ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 QJ-AA-08-001-EN-C
ISSN 1684-0666 THE ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT FOR 2008 European Court of Auditors
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT FOR 2008
2 Europe Direct is a service to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Freephone number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Certain mobile telephone operators do not allow access to 00 800 numbers or these calls may be billed.
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2009 ISBN 978-92-9207-202-5 © European Communities, 2009 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Belgium PRINTED ON WHITE CHLORINE-FREE PAPER
PREFACE OF THE PRESIDENT The Court of Auditors as an independent audit body of the EU makes a unique contribution to improving EU financial management and to promoting transparency and accountability by providing audit services and providing a role model.
The Court had a significant number of significant progress and important developments in EU financial management in 2008, as detailed in this Annual Activity Report.
The European Court of Auditors' peer review of the Court of Auditors was a defining event, which led to a positive conclusion as to the usefulness of the Court's audit management framework, and the independence and objectivity of the Court's work.
In its annual report on the 2007 financial year published in November 2008, the Court for the first time issued a full audit opinion on the reliability of the EU's accounts.
As in previous years, however, he found too high a quota of errors in legality and regularity in the areas of the EU budget, which account for most of the expenditure.
In 2008, the Court also recognised the developments initiated at EU and national level, which are likely to lead to significant improvements in EU financial management in the future.
Two examples mentioned in this Annual Activity Report concern the ongoing process of reviewing the EU budget to which the Court has made an active contribution and the Commission's communication on the tolerable risk of error.
In the field of international relations, the Court took the lead in the organisation of the deliberations of the European Union's European Union's Chief Audit Institutions' Contact Committee on the EU budget reform and the revised Lisbon Strategy and the hosting role of a recent workshop on the role of the EU's ORC in the context of the measures taken to address the current financial crisis.
As its audit environment is undergoing rapid change, the Court is encouraged to adapt through internal reforms in order to better fulfil its obligations under the Treaty and to fulfil its mandate effectively.
A significant step taken by the Court in 2008 to implement its mission and mission was the development of an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012.
The audit strategy is based on two priority objectives: to maximise the overall impact of the audit and to improve efficiency by maximising the use of resources.
These objectives will be crucial to the Court's work programmes over that period and to its efforts to continually improve and exploit the main challenges and opportunities identified in the peer review process in terms of exploiting potential for improvement.
Thanks to its competence and commitment, the Court's staff have a central role to play in carrying out the audit work carried out by the Court as an independent guardian of the financial interests of citizens in order to improve financial management.
On behalf of the Court and on my own behalf, I would like to thank all the staff for all their dedication and professional work in the past year.
Special thanks are due to our former Secretary-General, Mr Michel Hervé, who resigned at the end of 2008.
I wish you a pleasant reading of this Annual Activity Report, which provides an insight into the Court and an overview of the activities carried out in 2008.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5
PROCUREMENT, GUIDELINE AND VALUES PROCUREMENT The European Court of Auditors is, in accordance with the Treaty, responsible for the audit of EU finances.
GUIDELINE An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, distinguished by its integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism, quality and impact of its work, and providing valuable support to its addressees to improve EU financial management.
VALUE Independence, integrity and impartiality Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and its employees.
Professionalism Respect a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Added value Creation of relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on well-founded findings and evidence, reflecting the interests of its addressees, and containing important and trend-setting statements.
Excellence and efficiency Acknowledgment of the value of the individual, support in further developing special skills and reward of performance.
ROLE AND WORK OF THE HOF THE HOF'S WORK IS THE EU'S BUDGET The European Union's budget amounts to about EUR 120 billion, representing about 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of the 27 Member States.
However, for some Member States, EU funds play an important role in the financing of public activities, in line with the overall budget of some Member States.
The revenue of the European Union consists mainly of contributions from Member States derived from their gross national income (GNI – 65.4%) or from VAT collected by the Member States (VAT – 16.9%).
Customs duties and agricultural duties (the so-called traditional own resources – 16,5%) also constitute a substantial part of revenue.
The composition of the budget has changed over time, with agricultural and cohesion policy the main areas of expenditure (see Box 1).
BOX 1 ས HOW DOES THE EU PLAY OUT THEIR DEALERS?
The EU budget is financed by the financial contributions of the Member States (mainly on the basis of national GNI) and by customs duties and agricultural duties.
The EU budget is largely used for purposes other than national budget purposes, partly due to different areas of responsibility.
For example, the Union is not responsible for the social security systems, which usually represent a substantial part of national expenditure.
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, which, as a rule, takes the form of payments to farmers throughout the Union, has been the main component of budgetary expenditure, although at present with a decreasing trend.
In 2009, 45.3% of the budget for the conservation and management of the natural resources, mainly for agriculture and rural development, is earmarked.
Since the 1980s, a significant proportion of the expenditure on cohesion measures, i.e. regional and social development, has been spent on co-financing a wide range of projects, from road construction projects in Poland to training measures for the unemployed in Spain.
For 2009, expenditure on sustainable growth of 39.6% of the budget is foreseen, of which the lion's share is cohesion.
This budget also covers the bulk of the EU's research resources.
In addition, EU funds will be directed to development aid and humanitarian aid, as well as to countries that have close relations with the Union or are candidate countries.
6.7% of the budget is spent on the management of the Community institutions.
Citizenship, freedom, security and justice The European Union as a global player Administration Agriculture – preserving and managing natural resources 45.3% 1.2 % 7.2 % 6.7% EU expenditure Cohesion – sustainable growth Source: European Union general budget for the financial year 2009 (OJ L 69, 13.3.2009). 39.6%
The budget is established annually by the Council, i.e. by representatives of the Member States, and the directly elected European Parliament, on a proposal from the European Commission, on the basis of a seven-year financial framework.
The Commission shall draw up the budget and shall also be responsible for its implementation.
The bulk of the budget, particularly in the area of expenditure on agricultural and cohesion policy, is implemented in cooperation with the Member States.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on the beneficiaries' own applications, whether farmers or project managers throughout the Union. 8
Democratic societies need complete and accurate publicly available information as a basis for discussion and decision-making with a view to improving financial management as well as ensuring accountability.
The EU, like its Member States, has an external audit body, which has the role of independent guardian of the financial interests of citizens.
In its role as external auditor of the EU, the European Court of Auditors ensures that the EU funds, regardless of their place of use, have been correctly entered and spent in accordance with the legislation, taking due account of the optimum use of funds.
The Court's audit work will be used by Parliament, the Council and the Commission and by the Member States to improve EU financial management.
The Court's work forms an important basis for the annual discharge procedure, during which Parliament, on the basis of Council recommendations, decides whether the Commission's responsibility for implementation of the budget during the previous year has been fulfilled.
Despite its name, the Court has no judicial powers.
In the areas of shared management, Member States shall cooperate with the Commission in the establishment of monitoring and control systems, i.e. internal control, in order to ensure the proper use of funds.
Internal control thus has a European as well as a national dimension.
In addition to the Court's work, many national control authorities examine EU funds, provided they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
9 OVERVIEW OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL OF THE EU BUDGET EU level Internal control External control Commission (DGs, Internal Audit Service) European Court of Auditors Member States Implementing Bodies National control authorities National level
(Economic Audit) HOW does the Court report on its findings?
The Court shall publish the results of its audit work in the following types of report: annual reports, with the results of the audit of the accounts in the form of a statement of assurance on the implementation of the general budget2 and on activities in the framework of the European Development Funds3.
Special annual reports – with the results of the audit of the accounts of the agencies and bodies of the Communities.
Special reports – with the results of selected economic and compliance audits.
10 1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
2 Under the EC Treaty, the Court is obliged to make such a statement, or a judgment, on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
In this context, the underlying transactions are, as a rule, payments to the final beneficiaries to the EU budget.
The annual Statement of Assurance is generally known under the French acronym DAS (Déclaration d'Assurance).
Unlike practice in the Member States, the Court makes such a statement on the EU budget as a whole.
3 The European Development Funds (EDF) are based on international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States)
The Court shall carry out its audit of the annual accounts of the EU in accordance with International Audit Principles (ISAs) which shall apply in both the public and the private sectors.
However, the existing international auditing principles do not fully cover the Court's compliance audit.
The Court, together with the national control authorities, actively participates in the further development of international audit standards, promoted by the standardisation bodies (INTOSAI, IFAC)4.
In order to ensure that the payments comply with the legal and framework rules, the Court is based on the results of both its study of monitoring and control systems to prevent or to detect and correct errors of legality and regularity and of a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
If systems are reviewed and found to be reliable, the number of operations to be audited by the Court will be reduced in order to reach a sound conclusion as to their legality and regularity.
Other sources, such as the work of other auditors, are also used to support the Court's conclusions.
In the case of the audit, the Court uses a wide range of audit methods to assess the management and monitoring systems and to assess the performance data on the basis of the criteria derived from the legislation in the light of the principles of sound financial management.
When selecting issues for its economic impact assessments, the Court is seeking to identify audit areas where the greatest impact is to be expected, in the form of the potential for improvement in terms of the economy, economic efficiency and efficiency of EU expenditure. 11 has been concluded, as well as decisions of the Council on the association of overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to the ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see external relations, development and enlargement) and partly through delegations in the beneficiary countries.
The EDF investment facilities are managed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and are not subject to the Court's audit mandate.
4 INTOSAI (International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions) International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions – IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) International Association of Accountants.
12 BOX 2  However, the Court's Court's responsibilities in respect of the EU's budget's payments are in no way the way in which the Court's resources are available to examine in detail all operations financed by the EU's budget.
In the context of the preparation of the DAS, it therefore uses statistical sampling methods to obtain a result representative of the population as a whole.
The sample shall be selected by randomly selecting a representative sample of the underlying transactions from all areas of the Union budget, such as agriculture, for a detailed examination.
The Court monitors these transactions until the final beneficiary of the aid, such as a farmer in France.
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks – e.g. measuring the size of the agricultural area – to determine whether the relevant information in the application for support corresponds to the actual circumstances.
By referring to a statistical sample, the results can be extrapolated to the relevant population, i.e. a specific area of revenue or expenditure, and can be used as a basis for an overall audit opinion, together with information resulting from the system assessment.
In practice, in order to determine how the audit opinion is to be found, the Court compares the results of its statistical sample audits with a certain upper limit, which it considers to be acceptable, the so-called materiality threshold.
Random selection of a representative sample Payment to an agricultural holding in France Population of agricultural payments
THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS OF AUDITORS AND ORGANISATION The Court of Auditors acts as a collegiate body of 27 members, each with one member per Member State.
All audit reports and opinions shall be adopted by the College.
The Court is divided into five audit groups to which individual members are assigned.
As the organisational chart (see page 17) shows, there are four thematic audit groups covering different budgetary areas (preserving and managing natural resources – structural policies, transport, research and energy – external policies – revenue, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies).
The fifth audit group (CEAD or coordination, communication, evaluation, quality assurance and development) is responsible for "horizontal issues such as coordination in the field of statement of assurance, quality assurance, the development of the Court's audit methodology and the general dissemination of the Court's audit results and reports.
In addition, a Management Committee shall be responsible for the preparatory treatment of all administrative matters requiring a formal decision of the Court.
MEMBERS The members of the Court shall be appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, for a term of six years in accordance with the proposals of each Member State, and shall be eligible for re-election.
Members shall perform their duties in full independence for the general good of the European Union.
In addition to its role within the College, which is responsible for the final decision-making on audits and opinions, as well as for further strategic and administrative issues, each member is responsible for his or her specific tasks primarily in the audit area.
The actual examination work is usually the task of the examiners in the individual examination papers and is coordinated by the relevant member with the support of his cabinet.
The Member shall then present the report to the Audit Group or to the Court and, after its adoption, to the European Parliament, the Council and to other interested third parties.
On 1 January 2008, three new members – Mr Michel Cretin (France), Mr Harald Noack (Germany) and Mr Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) – replaced their respective predecessors at the end of their term of office.
The Council also extended the mandate of four members – Mr Hubert Weber (Austria), Mr Maarten B. Engwirda (Netherlands), Mr David Bostock (United Kingdom) and Mr Ioannis Sarmas (Greece) – for a period of six years.
THE PRESIDENT The President of the European Court of Auditors will be headed by the President of the European Court of Auditors, who will be elected by the members of the European Court of Auditors for a period of three years, and will be eligible for re-election.
The President shall represent the Court in all its external relations, in particular in its relations with the discharge authority, the other institutions of the European Union and with the supreme audit authorities of the Member States and beneficiary countries.
On 16 January 2008, the Portuguese member, Mr. Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, was elected the tenth President of the Court. 14
THE GENERAL SECRETARY The Secretary-General is the institution's senior staff and is appointed by the Court for a period of six years; he may be re-elected.
The Secretary-General shall be responsible for the management of the Court's personnel and the management of the Court's personnel, including vocational training and the Directorate of Translation, each with one unit per official language (22), with the exception of Irish.
The Secretary-General shall also be responsible for the Court's secretariat.
The former Secretary General, Mr Michel Hervé, left the Court on 31 October 2008.
On 9 October 2008, Mr John Speed was appointed Secretary General m.d.W.d.G.b.
On 10 March 2009, the Court appointed Mr Eduardo Ruiz García as new Secretary-General with effect from 16 March 2009. THE HOFE'S PERSONAL PERSONALITY The budget for the financial year 2008 provides for 858 posts for the European Court of Auditors (as at 31 December 2008).
The Court's auditors have broad training profiles and relevant professional experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular in the fields of accounting, financial management, internal and external auditing and the legal and economic sciences.
Like the other EU institutions, the Court employs nationals from all Member States, subject to the EU Staff Regulations.
15 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2009 President Vitor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCCKIEEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKENSTEN (ET) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri GrethEN (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEDEVIČIA. (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUIN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONČIČIČI (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALSO MEASEASZA. BEASANET (ES) MELES BEASALSOSALD BLOD BLOD ISAL BSOVIJJEL BROSOAL BNN BROSTON BROSY OF OOL BROOLSOJSOSOULSSO BLON BLO O B BSE OF B ISO B BEN BLOSSOS BROALSO S BSOS M OS OF BS S L BS OF L OF S S S OF BSOS AND AND BS OF S BA B BS AND OFS BSO S OF BI S I OS BLOS BSOS B J OF M OF B BS S AND OF OS S OF B OS OF O S OF OF LALSO BSS AND B I S M SS O O S OF B BS OF BSO B OF S B B TO C M I BS B AND NO TO B AND O M O TOS TO B TO C M BSI B B B B BS B O B B AND BS I BSO S B B B OF S S OF MS B TO M M B B B OF M OF S OF M TO B B B OF B B S OF BS OF S S I M
OVERVIEW OF AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS5 ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2007 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET The annual accounts give a true picture of the financial situation as well as the results of the EU as a whole.
The restrictions set out in last year's annual report on the reliability of the accounts for the financial year 2006 are no longer valid due to the improvements that have been made for 2007.
In some areas, such as Union administrative expenditure, the Court gives full audit opinions on the legality and regularity of the Court.
However, the Court cannot give an unqualified opinion on most areas of expenditure.
Although most of the Court's audited payments have been made in accordance with the legislation, the Court still considers the error rate in the payments made to final beneficiaries, such as farmers and beneficiaries of EU funded projects, to be too high.
With the exception of cohesion measures with an error rate of at least 11%, the Court estimates the error rate in these themes in the range of 2% to 5%.
In some areas of expenditure, particularly those formerly covered by internal and external policies, the estimated error rate has fallen, but has not been so large that it would change the overall picture.
The result does not imply that these violations of legislation are due to fraud or that most of these transactions are illegal and/or illegal.
THE SITUATION IN CERTAIN AREAS In three areas – administrative and other expenditure, economic and financial expenditure and revenue – the Court's audits of representative samples of operations have revealed low estimated error rates.
In the Union's largest expenditure area – agriculture and natural resources – the estimated overall error rate remains significant.
Rural development, which is often complex, accounts for a disproportionate proportion of this error rate.
For the expenditure of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), the level of the error rate estimated by the Court is just below the materiality threshold of 2 %.
As in previous years, cohesion measures, which account for more than one-third of the budget, are the most flawed.
In view of the random estimate made by the Court of the proportion of the error made, at least 11 % of the total amount of the refunds should not have been made.
5 This section is intended to introduce the Court's reports and opinions to the Court and to the Court's summary of the content of the Court's opinions.
For more information, see the full text of the Court documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after their adoption.
19 WAGES TO IMPROVE SUPERVISION AND CONTROL The high error rate in areas such as cohesion is partly due to the inherent risk caused by the high number of beneficiaries applying for EU funding under complex rules and legislation.
The shortcomings in the design and functioning of the systems also contribute to the inadequacies identified.
Most programmes financed by EU funds contain provisions on corrective measures which provide for the recovery of funds unduly paid out on a multiannual basis due to errors.
However, no information is available on the impact of these measures.
This means that it is not possible to determine in concrete terms whether they effectively reduce the proportion of illegal and/or illegal expenditure.
The Commission has been working since 2000 on a reform programme to improve the management of the EU budget, which includes an action plan from 2006.
By the end of 2007, the Commission had implemented two thirds of the sub-measures of the Action Plan.
However, it is too early to assess the impact of these measures.
Improved high-level controls, such as the Commission's monitoring of Member States' control activities, do not compensate for inadequate controls at a lower level, such as on-the-spot checks.
However, the benefits arising from increased on-the-spot checks must be weighed against the costs.
The Court recommends that the Union's political authorities define the appropriate level of risk of error.
To reduce the error rate in EU payments, the Court recommends simplifying rules and legislation, streamlining internal control measures and improving monitoring and reporting.
20 QUESSION 3  长 SUMMARY OF THE LEGALITY AND ORDER ACTIVITY OF THE PROPOSALS SUBJECT TO SUMMARY BY FIELD OF EXPENDITURE The table presents a summary of the overall assessment of the monitoring and control systems as set out in the respective chapters of the 2007 Annual Report and provides a rough overview of the Court's audit results as regards representative samples of operations.
The systems Specific assessments in the annual report for 2007 Cohesion: €42 billion Agriculture and natural resources: €51 billion External assistance, development and enlargement: €6 billion Research, energy and transport: €4.5 billion Education and citizenship: €1.5 billion Administrative and other expenditure: €8 MilliaSrdAePnAERuDro Economy and finance: €0.5 billion Revenue Evaluation of the monitoring and control systems Range in which the error rate (FQ) lies are classified as "partly satisfactory", if some control arrangements have been found to be working properly, other not.
THE 2007 AUDIT JUDGMENT ON THE EDF The annual accounts of the European Development Funds (EDFs) give a true view of the financial situation and the results of the EDFs.
The audit opinion on the legality and regularity of EDF operations is limited in terms of payments.
SPECIFIC ANNUAL REPORTS In addition, 28 special annual reports on European agencies and other decentralised bodies were adopted in 2008.
21 BOX 4 果 INTERPRETATION OF AUDIT CASES An auditor may issue the following types of audit opinion: • the audit opinion is fully audited if it is proven that the accounting is reliable or that the underlying transactions, i.e. the payments, are lawful and lawful on all essential points; • the negative audit opinion if the error rate is essential and comprehensive in the underlying transactions or the accounting is not reliable; • the audit opinion is not refused if the auditor cannot obtain adequate and adequate audit evidence to support his audit opinion, and the possible effects are both material and comprehensive; • the limited audit opinion if an audit opinion cannot be delivered in full audit, but the effects of disagreements or limitations on the scope of the audit are not so essential or comprehensive that they require a negative opinion or refusal of the audit opinion.
SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 2008 The Court published a total of twelve special reports in 2008.
In order to improve the readability and usability of its reports, the Court decided to publish its special reports in a new format and to make them directly available on its website (www.eca. europa.eu), with a reference to their publication in the Official Journal.
As in previous years, the reports concerned studies of financial management issues in many different areas, ranging from the effectiveness of the European Solidarity Fund (No 3/2008) to the European Union support measures for public storage of cereals (No 11/2008).
The Court's audits revealed problems of a wide variety of kinds with various consequences and resulted in recommendations to improve financial management as well as to improve profitability and effectiveness.
The selection of topics and their design is at the discretion of the Court and is based on criteria such as risk analysis, potential for improvement and public interest.
In its 2008 Special Reports, broken down by thematic area, the Court provided answers to the following questions: the conservation and management of natural resources • Did the procedure for the establishment of national milk quotas in the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 provide a sound basis for the timely establishment of operational management and control systems for the application of the EU rules?
(No 3/2008) • Did the Commission plan, monitor and evaluate the Intelligent Energy Europe programme (to promote energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy sources and the diversification of energy supply) appropriately, and did the executive agency responsible for implementing the programme have a positive impact on the management of the programme? (No 7/2008) • Has ISPA (a structural instrument for the preparation of accession, one of the instruments for assisting the accession countries of Central and Eastern Europe in the preparation of accession in the period 2000-2006) been properly prepared and a single strategy? Has ISPA projects been implemented as planned and contributed to the compliance of the beneficiary countries with the EU environmental directives and the improvement of the trans-European transport network?
External policies • Has the Commission adequately identified the rehabilitation needs of those affected by the tsunami and by Hurricane Mitch and has the assistance been implemented in a timely and efficient manner? (No 6/2008) • Has EU support for the new neighbouring countries (Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine) directly adjacent to the EU improved their administrative capacity in the areas of border control, migration and asylum control, the fight against organised crime, and justice and good governance following the 2004 and 2007 enlargements?
What were the causes of below-average performance and to what extent was the Commission learning to make use of lessons learned to further support this area? (No 9/2008) • Was EC development aid to health care in sub-Saharan Africa (in the context of the EC's commitments to poverty reduction and to achieve the Millennium Development Goals) effective?
If the financial and human resources allocated to the health sector were in line with the EC's policy commitments, was the Commission able to speed up the implementation of this aid, and how effectively had the Commission used various instruments to support the health sector?
(No 10/2008) Revenue, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies • Has the system of binding tariff information, aimed at promoting the uniform application of customs policy and ensuring the correct level of customs duties, been effectively applied (appropriate and in line with legislation)? (No 2/2008) • Has the EU regulatory agencies been able to implement the EU's main administrative and financial reforms to switch to results-oriented management?
If the agencies had planned their actions sufficiently, had they set up reliable monitoring tools for their activities and adequately reported on their activities, and had they carried out sound assessments of their results? (No 5/2008) 24
25 SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 20086 No 1/2008 No 2/2008 No 3/2008 No 4/2008 No 5/2008 No 6/2008 No 7/2008 No 8/2008 No 9/2008 No 10/2008 No 11/2008 No 12/2008 Procedure for the examination and evaluation of major investment projects for the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods (OJ C 81, 1.4.2008) Binding tariff information (CCTAs) (OJ C 103, 24.4.2008) The European Union Solidarity Fund: How fast, effective and flexible is it?
(OJ C 185, 22.7.2008) How do the Union agencies achieve results? European Commission rehabilitation assistance following the tsunami and the Hurricane Mitch Intelligent Energy – Europe Programme (2003-2006) Is cross compliance effective?
Effectiveness of EU support for Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice EC development assistance for health care in sub-Saharan Africa Management of European Union assistance for public storage of cereals Structural policy instrument in preparation for accession (ISPA), 2000-2006 6 These special reports are available on the Court's website or can be obtained via an electronic order form on the EU Bookshop.
OPINIONS PUBLISHED IN 2008 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management by delivering opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
These opinions are required as part of the adoption procedure of financial rules7 or may be delivered at the request of one of the other institutions of the Community8.
The Court may also submit opinions on its own initiative.
The Court's opinions may address issues relating to certain areas of EU expenditure, such as the amendment of the Financial Regulation of the European Aviation Safety Agency (No 1/2008), or to EU revenue, such as the amendment to the Regulation on the Community's own resources system (No 2/2008).
Opinions are based on the Court's expertise in EU financial management over the years in the course of its audits and in some cases reference is made to some audits or opinions.
For example, in its opinion on the new financial regulation of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor), the Court refers to its annual report on the financial year 2006, in which it had already drawn attention to high risks regarding the legality and regularity of the payments for research aid.
26 7 Article 279 of the EC Treaty.
8 Article 248(4) of the EC Treaty.
27 OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 20089 Opinion No 1/2008 Opinion No 2/2008 Opinion No 3/2008 Opinion No 4/2008 Opinion No 5/2008 on the proposal for a Decision of the Management Board of the European Aviation Safety Agency amending the Agency's Financial Regulation on a proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1150/2000 implementing Decision 2000/597/EC, Euratom on the system of the Communities' own resources (OJ L 309, 31.12.2000, p.
CONTINUING AND EFFECTIVENESS Public financial control plays a key role in promoting accountability and contributes to public debate.
The audit activities will be held accountable to the recipients at the end of the information chain, in this case to European citizens, whether their taxpayers' money will be spent in a proper and appropriate manner.
The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for decision-makers in the institutions concerned – in the European context, in particular, the Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States.
On the basis of this information, they may take measures, with or without reference to the examination conclusions.
Although the Court's audit activity has its main effect on the published reports, it has its own effect during the entire course of the audit.
In the replies the audited body often acknowledges the problems detected by the Court and sets out the steps it intends to take to remedy them.
After completion of the audit work and publication of a report, the audit results will be evaluated and used by the Parliament and the Council to carry out their policy role of monitoring the use of the budget.
The Court's reports form the basis for the Council's recommendation and the Parliament's decision in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
29 Examples of this can be found in the 2007 discharge procedure, in which the European Parliament calls on the Commission and the Member States to make efforts to simplify and further clarify the rules to reduce the risk of errors, streamline controls and reduce costs.
This applies to areas of shared management, such as agricultural and cohesion spending, as well as to areas of direct management, such as research and culture and education spending.
The special reports are also taken into account in the discharge procedure.
However, due to the fact that they will be published during the course of the year, the presentation of the special reports and the debate on that have usually taken place at an earlier stage in the meetings of Parliament and the Council.
The impact of audit reports can be enhanced by their thematicisation in the relevant media, which will raise awareness and stimulate public debate.
As a rule, media coverage of the Court's annual report is quite comprehensive, but some special reports have also been followed with interest by the press.
One example is the special report on cross compliance (No 8/2008), which is currently being issued on the approval of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) health check.
Because of the importance of cross-compliance and its central role in the CAP and the timing of its publication, the report received a broad response in the various media: television, newspapers, specialised newspapers, Internet publications (press, agricultural associations, MEP websites, web blogs, etc.).
The report was also discussed in detail in the European Parliament and almost all the Court's recommendations were taken up in the draft discharge report.
Further details on the follow-up to the Court's previous observations are given in the respective chapters of its annual report.
The Court's most frequently commented in its last annual report is that, despite the measures taken, the deficiencies identified in the previous year have only been partially remedied.
The Court's intention is to analyse to an increasing extent the long-term impact of its work – both audits and opinions.
As an example, the Court uses a Commission database of follow-up to its audit recommendations as a basis for assessing the impact of its audits.
The assessment may lead to separate in-depth audits leading to further findings and recommendations.
These may be incorporated into a subsequent special report on the area concerned or may be included in a report on the follow-up and impact of recommendations on financial management.
The Court held in its Opinion No 2/2004 that, in the context of the development of a Community internal control framework, it was the responsibility of the political authorities to decide on the level of risk that they were willing to accept when approving EU spending rules.
The Court proposed that Parliament and the Council agree on an appropriate balance between the costs and benefits of controls, in other words the tolerable residual risk of expenditure errors.
The costs of controls should be proportionate to the benefits they have of monetary and political benefits.
Since the publication of this opinion, both the European Parliament and the Council, in their discharge resolutions, have expressed their desire to pursue the issue and to achieve a common understanding of the tolerable level of risk.
At the end of 2008, the Commission issued a Communication entitled Towards a common understanding of the concept of tolerant risk of error.
The Court welcomed this communication and sent the Commission a response which highlighted certain limits and highlighted the main issues to be considered in the future follow-up to this issue.
In its Communication, the Commission states that any decision on a tolerable risk of error should, inter alia, be based on the potential for further simplification.
The Court also stresses the importance and benefits of further simplification and the potential impact on the reduction of errors and irregularities.
The concept of "tolerable risk of error" must be clearly separated from the concept of the materiality threshold as defined and applied by the Court, the latter being the responsibility of the external auditor10.
The Court considers that the cost-benefit analysis of expenditure programmes could provide information not only for discussions on the tolerable risk, but also for the review of the regulatory framework and the management structure of the programmes concerned.
In this context, the relevant question may not be whether there is a tolerable risk of error, but whether the risk of error is so high that the relevant scheme or programme should be abolished or substantially modified.
The concept of tolerable risk should also be addressed in the design of expenditure (and revenue) schemes or programmes.
It would be useful if, at the time of adoption, sufficient information on the risks involved, as well as the costs of the controls planned, were available on expenditure programmes to reduce these risks to an acceptable level.
In this way decisions would be taken in the knowledge of the facts and taking explicit account of the risks and costs involved.
The budgetary reform process may provide an opportunity to reflect on this issue, as suggested by the Court in its response to the Commission communication entitled ‘Reforming the budget, changing Europe'11.
31 10 The concept of ‘essentiality' is defined in the international audit principle ISA 320 as follows: ‘Information is essential if its omission or incorrect presentation could influence the economic decisions made by the final recipients on the basis of a financial statement.
Materiality depends on the size of the item or the defect resulting from the particular circumstances of omission or incorrect representation.
Thus the materiality is more a threshold or a threshold and less a primary qualitative requirement, which must have information to be useful to it.. to 11 See the European Court of Auditors' response to the Commission's communication "Reforming the budget, changing Europe", April 2008.
The Court shall present its future audit work every year in a work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and made available to the public on the Court's website.
The number of special reports and opinions in 2008 was similar to those in previous years.
Results (number) 2008 Opinions 5 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special reports 10 6 11 9 12 Annual reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 1 Special reports 23 20 23 29 28 2 11 8 9
ASSESSMENT STRATEGY The audit strategy is based on the Court's strategic objectives.
33 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Professionalism Output Scope of contacts Development and growth Consolidated audit methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practices in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards of EU funds, cooperation with the EU-ORCB, effective "Community control framework", selection of relevant audit topics, timeliness, clarity and legibility of reports, quality of economic evaluations, increasing the impact of reports Deeper relations with the audited bodies, in order to provide a better understanding of the audit process, and to achieve a wider acceptance of audit results, increasing contacts with the European Parliament and Council as budgetary and discharge authority Effective communication with EU citizens Use the experience of peer-reviewed practices in order to strengthen and further develop the organisation, methods, procedures and results and achieve maximum efficiency of monitoring of effective and dynamic personnel policy High-quality professional training; modernising infrastructure Implementation of IT strategies Zielele of the audit strategy 2009-2012 Maximising the impact achieved with the audits, overall efficiency through the best possible use of resources
The Court's audits and reports aim to help improve EU financial management and protect the EU's financial interests to the benefit of EU citizens.
The following key aspects are taken into account when formulating the strategy which is relevant to the Court's activities: EFFICIENCY REPORTS Review activity Work programme In 2008 the Court developed an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012 for the implementation of its mission and mission statement.
A summary of this document is available on the Court's website.
The Court's strategy is based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of the audits and improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
These objectives will have a key impact on the Court's work programmes over the same period and on its work towards continuous improvement.
The Court aims to maximise the overall impact of its audits over the period concerned by: • selecting and designing audits focusing on issues of high risk and of greatest interest to the Court's audience; • continuing to provide sound audit conclusions and useful suggestions for improvement, and to monitor whether these proposals are being implemented; • carrying out a broader range of audits and presenting new types of audit products to complement the current annual and special reports; • preparing a larger number of special reports and improving the timeliness and ease of use of these reports; • improving its relations with its main users, including the relevant parliamentary committees, as well as with the media and the general public; and the Court aims at improving the efficiency of the period concerned by making the best use of its resources.
These include: • better management; • an effective and dynamic staff policy; • rationalisation of audit tasks; • improvement of IT tools; • development of expertise; • development of relations with audited bodies. 34
AUDIT WORK TO BE BE AUDITED IN 200912 As in previous years, the 2009 work programme includes the preparation of annual reports setting out the results of the audit of the accounts to be carried out by the Court in accordance with the EC Treaty and other EU legislation.
For 2009, the Court has identified a number of audit issues relating to policy developments and issues relating to EU financial management.
As regards developments in EU policy areas, the following topics have been selected: • growth and jobs; • climate change and sustainable development; • Europe as a global partner; • better regulation.
In addition, the Court places particular emphasis on the following issues in the area of EU financial management, which it believes deserve particular attention: • the completion of the expenditure programmes for the period 2000-2006, in particular in the area of the Structural Funds; • the accountability and reform of the EU; • the progress of the Commission's action plan for an Integrated Internal Control Framework, taking into account the concept of tolerable risk; • management and control measures at Member State level.
The Court's aim is to address these issues from 2009 onwards in the context of its annual reports, special reports and some of the new types of reports (see the following).
The Court intends to publish a series of special reports and related novel reports, drawn up on the basis of the audit tasks it has selected.
The planning and implementation of these selected audit tasks and the reporting of these tasks generally cover a period of more than one year.
As a result, most reports published in a given year are based on audit work undertaken in previous years.
Box 5 contains the selected audit tasks that are completed or are pending completion and their results are therefore expected to be published in special reports in 2009 or early 2010.
35 12 A more complete and detailed overview of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2009 work programme, which is available on its website (www.eca.europa.eu).
Follow-up to the recommendations is an important tool for the Court to actively contribute to improving financial management.
The report will include an analysis of the extent to which our recommendations have been complied with, and, where appropriate, an assessment of the effectiveness of the measures taken.
It is expected to be published at approximately the same time as the annual report. — The other new type of report the Court intends to present is a report on high-risk areas of EU financial management.
The report is aimed at the new Commission, which will start its work at the end of the year, and will serve as a guidance tool.
DEVELOPMENT AND IMPROVEMENT OF ACTION PLAN AND ACQUISITIONS In 2006, the Court carried out a self-assessment of its strengths and weaknesses.
An action plan has subsequently been drawn up to address the weaknesses.
The Action Plan included a number of measures which led the Court to: • define its mission, mission, strategic objectives and strategic planning; • develop internal performance indicators which are gradually introduced (see section below); • adopt an internal communication strategy, which is already being implemented and has opened up new channels for the better dissemination of information within the institution; • take a number of measures to improve the quality of its reports, including a new graphic design for the improvement of readability and external evaluations; • adopt a strategy to gradually implement which is to improve the Court's relations with its addressees, the press and the general public.
As part of its efforts to improve, in 2009 the Court will seek to address the observations and recommendations of the International Peer Review Report on the European Court of Auditors, published in December 2008, which is an important stage in the Court's ongoing reform process.
The peer review was carried out by representatives of the national control authorities of Canada, Norway, Austria and Portugal.
The peers carried out their work in 2008 and in this context also contacted the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control. The final report was presented at the end of 2008.
The peer review procedure was aimed at assessing the design and functioning of the Court's framework for the audits. The Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities
The audit covered the following areas: • planning and audit procedures for audit of accounts and audit of accounts; • reporting on audit results; • services supporting the Court in achieving its objectives.
The peer review team concluded that the design of the audit framework set by the Court is in line with international audit principles and good practice for the audit authorities.
In addition, the peers noted that • the Court performs its activities independently and objectively; • the Court's audit reports were based on sufficient and adequate audit evidence, as provided for in the international audit principles; • the persons questioned had high confidence in the Court's reports and generally considered them fair, objective and objective.
The Court welcomes the constructive comments and recommendations made by the peers to identify the possibilities to further strengthen their role as the Supreme Audit Authority and to highlight the challenges involved.
This includes, among other things, the need to • develop a culture that focuses on a consistent approach of the Court as an audit body; • strengthen quality assurance and quality control activities to ensure consistent interpretation and application of its audit strategies and methods; • develop risk-based audit strategies to ensure the best use of resources in view of the different needs of the users.
The peer review report acknowledges that most of the recommendations have already been anticipated under the Action Plan drawn up before the procedure.
The Court intends to include the other recommendations in its audit strategy for the period 2009-2012 following an exchange with its staff and addressees and will endeavour to implement them during that period.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS INTERNATIONAL PEER REVIEW OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 38
CENTRAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2008, the Court decided to set up a system of key performance indicators (CLIs) for its audit and non-audit activities in order to measure performance in achieving the Court's strategic objectives and objectives specified in the Annual Work Programme.
ZLI aims to strengthen internal and external accountability and to improve work efficiency and quality. ZLI will be gradually introduced in 2009 and 2010.
• To inform management of the success of the Court as an institution in implementing what it has undertaken; • To support the decision-making process by focusing the institution's attention on efficiency issues and promoting improvements; • To provide the addressee with information on relevant aspects of the Court's performance.
They are intended to provide information on the performance of the Court as "company" and become an integral part of the Court's management system.
The volume and quality of audit work can also be improved by considering the effects of the Court's reports and opinions on financial management.
Four key performance indicators (1 to 4) are used to measure the impact of the Court's work.
They will be developed with a view to their inclusion in the Court's annual work programme for 2010.
The Court has measured the performance in 2008 on the basis of the ZLI 5 and 6.
ZLI 5 – Number of reports adopted compared with the number of reports planned In 2008, the Court adopted 79% of the planned number of reports.
The annual report and most of the special annual reports were adopted as planned.
Of the 20 special reports planned, only twelve were adopted.
The remaining eight special reports were still in the drafting phase as at 31 December 2008.
ZLI 6 – Number of reports adopted on time In 2008, the Court adopted 73% of its reports on time.
The annual report and all specific annual reports were adopted on time, and further efforts are needed to improve compliance with the deadlines for the adoption of the special reports.
ZLI 7, which measures the number of key audit notifications which have been prepared on time, will provide useful performance information and will be prepared in 2009.
A CLI (8) covers aspects relating to the Court's financial management.
Two ZLI (9 and 10) are intended to help to improve staff satisfaction and to optimise the use of continuing vocational training as an instrument for the ongoing updating of the state of knowledge about the latest examination methods and techniques.
THE CENTRAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF THE COURT Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the principal addressees of the Court's reports Assessment of the quality and impact of the audit activities of the Court by the audited body Assessment of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by a panel of external experts Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audited body (a) accepted by the audited body (b) implemented by the audited body within x years Number of reports accepted by the number of reports envisaged Number of reports accepted by time Percentage of audit reports produced by the audited body External evaluation of the Court's financial management: a) Assessment by the audited auditor (b) Decision by the discharge authority Degree of the Court's staff satisfaction Average number of training days per person (40) ZLI 1 ZLI 2 ZLI 3 ZLI 4 ZLI 5 ZLI 6 ZLI 7 ZLI 8 ZLI 9 ZLI 10
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION COOPERATION WITH THE EU'S NATIONAL ACCOUNTING INSTITUTIONS Pursuant to the EC Treaty, the ERR has to carry out its audit in ‘in liaison with the Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities (ORCBs), while in the Treaty of Amsterdam it was later added: ‘The Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies shall cooperate with the Member States in confidence while respecting their independence.' This arrangement has been extended in the Treaty of Nice by the fact that, in the 18th declaration of the Final Act, the Court of Auditors has been explicitly invited to establish a Committee for contacts with the national audit bodies in which the Presidents of the SAIs and the Court meet each year to discuss matters of common interest.
In December 2008, the Court hosted the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the EU-ORKB.
The meeting focused on the reform of the EU budget and the revised Lisbon Strategy for the period 2008-2011.
The Contact Committee shall seek to strengthen cooperation among its members to improve external audit and accountability in the EU.
The role of the Contact Committee has developed over the years in parallel with European integration.
In addition to facilitating the exchange of information between the SAIs and the EAFRD, this body has made considerable progress in the effective cooperation between the various control authorities.
At its meeting in Helsinki in 2007, the Contact Committee recognised the need to tackle emerging or new issues in a timely manner and agreed to provide a permanent agenda item for the consideration of such current issues.
Accordingly, at its 2008 meeting, the Contact Committee discussed the economic and financial crisis and agreed to organise a workshop on the role of the EU at ORCB in the context of the crisis.
A network was then established to promote cooperation in audits in connection with the Lisbon Strategy and with EU crisis management measures.
The Court took part in meetings of the Network of SAIs of Candidate Countries and Candidate Countries ‘in spe the (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro).
These meetings were held at the same time as liaison officers' meetings in May and October.
A delegation from the Court also attended a workshop organised by the Network on 8 and 9 July in Ankara, Turkey, in order to examine and evaluate systems of internal control of public finances.
Throughout 2008, the Court actively participated in the various working groups set up by the Contact Committee.
The Working Group on Common Audit Standards, the objective of which is to develop common audit standards tailored to the EU environment and comparable audit standards based on internationally recognised audit standards, met four times in 2008 under the chairmanship of the Court.
With effect from December 2008, the Court took over the (rotating) chairmanship of the Working Group on Value Added Tax (VAT), and the Network of Experts on Agriculture resumed its work under the chairmanship of a member of the Court.
OTHER INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court continued its active participation and participation in the improvement of international auditing principles and procedures through its membership of European and international organisations for public financial control bodies, namely EUROSAI and INTOSAI.
A delegation from the Court attended the VII EUROSAI Congress, which took place in Krakow, Poland, from 2 to 5 June.
The main topics for discussion included the introduction of quality management systems for examination in a SAIs, the examination of social programmes in the field of training and the vocational integration of the disabled.
The President of the Court presented a contribution to the role of senior management in the implementation of a quality management system for auditing.
Within the framework of the EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the Environmental Working Group and in the IT Working Group and participates in the EUROSAI Training Committee.
It also participates in the working group set up at the VII EUROSAI Congress to draw up a guide to best practice in achieving quality in an SAI.
In addition, the Court is a member of the EUROSAI Task Force on Disaster Aid Assessment. 42
At the EUROSAI Congress, the European Court of Auditors and the Supreme Audit Authority of the Slovak Republic were appointed auditors for the period 2009-2011.
Since becoming a full member of INTOSAI in 2004, the Court has actively participated in the Subcommittee for Guidelines for the Audit of Accounting (FAS), the Subcommittee for the Audit of Compliance with Legal Standards (CAS) and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits (PAS).
The Court contributed to the subcommittee to promote best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews.
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the Working Group on the Accountability and Audit of Disaster Relief (successor of the INTOSAI Task Force Tsunami).
A first meeting of this working group was held by the Court as the host from 30 June to 2 July 2008.
The draft work programme for the period 2008-2010 was discussed and adopted at the meeting.
The main objective is to develop guidelines for accountability and audit in this area and to reach all stakeholders through the relevant standardisation body.
In addition to its coordinating role, the Court has assumed the responsibility for a number of tasks, two of them in cooperation with the Norwegian Court of Auditors.
The chair of this working group also requires the Court to be represented at the meetings of the INTOSAI Bureau. 43
Of the 857 staff (officials and temporary and contract staff, but without members, seconded national experts and trainees) who were in active service as at 31 December 2008, 501 were employed as examiners and audit assistants, 163 as translators and 173 as administrative assistants and 20 were employed in the President's services.
They have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the output of the Court.
As a key performance indicator (ZLI 9) for human resources, the Court has set out the assessment of the level of satisfaction of the Court's staff.
To this end, a satisfaction survey was conducted to provide information on this issue and to support the decision-making process in this area.
MEN WOMEN 54 % 46 % 12.2001 12.2008 51 % 49 %
The graph below shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2008.
14 of the 59 directors and heads of unit (24%) are women; this represents a slight increase in the proportion of women since 2007.
Assistants — Secretaries (AST-level) MEN Auditors — Administrators (AD-level) MEN Directors and Head of Unit MEN WOMEN 45 32 % 68 % 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 WOMEN 33 % 67 % 64 % 36 % 63 % 37 % WOMEN 77 % 23 % 76 % 24 %
ALTERSPROFILE The following graph shows that the Court is a ‘young' organ (62% of the employees are under the age of 44).
Among the 98 Court staff aged 55 or older, 27 of the 59 Directors and Head of Unit are present and this means that the next five to ten years will see extensive new appointments at the upper management levels.
Age profile 46 33 2 65 148 148 123 101 62 3 172 20–24 25–29 30–34 35–39 40–44 45–49 50–54 55–59 60–64 >64 REPRESENTATIONS The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions, and the staff consists of both officials and temporary staff.
In 2008, the Court hired 97 employees: 48 officials, 18 temporary staff and 31 contract staff.
The recruitment depends on whether reserve lists of EPSO competitions are available.
Due to the lack of suitable applicants, the Court was not able to recruit as many new employees as planned in many of its units, so the total number of vacancies (69) was higher at the end of 2008 than at the end of 2007.
However, it should be noted that a significant number of recruitments were underway at the end of the year and that the employees concerned were expected to be in service in the first quarter of 2009.
The Court is currently seeking to reduce the time limits for its recruitment procedures.
TRANSLATION Translation is an important administrative task that enables the Court to achieve its communication objectives and to fulfil its legal obligation to publish in 22 languages.
The volume of translation increased by 17% in 2008, mainly due to the adoption of a higher number of special reports.
The vast majority of translations are done internally and translation assignments to the Translation Centre (CTOU) or to external translation agencies are carried out during peak times during which the normal capacity of the translation departments is exceeded.
In addition, translators participate in audit visits and support the auditors before, during and after audit visits, including the subsequent stages of the drafting of audit reports.
The translators shall provide constant support in the ongoing updating of the contents of the intranet and the website in the English and French languages.
They also support INTOSAI working groups and address other specific needs related to the Court's activities.
The Court's Translation Directorate actively participates in the work of the Interinstitutional Translation and Interpretation Committee (CITI), is a member of international committees and participates in international conferences relating to the development of electronic translation and documentation tools.
TEST TEST In the course of the Court's audit work, the auditors must travel to the Member States and to other recipient countries of EU funds in order to obtain adequate audit evidence.
The visits are generally conducted by central and local authorities involved in granting, managing and disbursing EU funds, as well as by the respective final beneficiaries.
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors, and the length of an audit trip may, depending on the type of audit and the distance, be up to two weeks.
Within the EU, the audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member State visited, providing useful logistical and practical support. 47
In 2008, costs of 3.29 million euros were incurred in connection with audit trips.
This substantial investment is necessary to ensure a sufficient audit coverage of all levels and locations of the management of EU funds.
The graphs below give an overview of the number of audit missions carried out by the Court in 2008 in the EU Member States and outside the Union.
50 40 30 20 10 0 5 4 3 2 1 0 Total: 283 AUDIT SERVICES TO MEMBER STATES IN 2008 48 48 35 34 21 20 17 13 11 10 9 9 8 55 33 333332222 1 AUDIT RATES IN 2008 Total: 42 Turkey Switzerland Malawi South Africa Tanzania Rwanda Peru Norway Kenya Bangladesh Angola Zambia Tunisia Sudan Senegal Palestinian Territories Mauritania Kosovo Jordan Georgia, Armenia Egypt Congo Burkina Faso France Spain Germany Belgium United Kingdom Poland Italy Netherlands Portugal Sweden Greece Ireland Austria Hungary Estonia Slovenia Slovakia Romania Malta Latvia Finland Cyprus Lithuania Denmark Czech Republic Bulgaria Luxembourg
VOCATIONAL TRAINING The occupation of the examiner requires continuous training.
In 2008, the Court's staff completed on average ten days of professional training.
The number of technical training measures increased considerably compared to 2007.
In 2008, the Court reinforced its support for the participation of its staff in ongoing programmes for the acquisition or maintenance of professional qualifications and qualifications in the fields of external audit, internal audit and IT audit.
Language courses accounted for 48% of the total number of training days in 2008 (compared to 52% in 2007).
Without taking into account the language courses, the examiners completed seven days of professional training in 2008.
On the basis of the long-term strategic objective of "Development and Growth" and the 2008-2011 Curriculum of Training and the Training Paths adopted in 2008, the Vocational Training Unit has improved the content of the training and has developed new training courses in line with the priorities adopted by the Court.
In addition, cooperation with the other institutions and interinstitutional bodies, such as the European School of Administration, has been successfully continued.
Box 6 provides a portrait of the staff of a selected department within the Court of Auditors in order to give a picture of the work carried out, the staff involved and their background and work experience. 49
50 BOX 6 单 THE TEAM TEAM INTELLIGENT FOR THE THEME The report on the Intelligent Energy – Europe programme 2003-2006 adopted by the Court in 2008 (Special Report No 7/2008) provided an insight into the operation of an aid scheme to improve the use of energy-efficient technologies.
It covered the procedures for allocating resources for individual projects, the monitoring and evaluation procedures, the administrative costs and the impact of the establishment of an executive agency.
The team responsible for conducting the audit worked closely with the rapporteur, Mr David Bostock.
Hendrik Fehr, the head of the team of Peggy Vercauteren, was responsible for supervising the audit.
The examiners involved were Oliver Müller, Peter Zsapka, Zoltán Giday and Carl-Christian Buhr, with Gerhard Ross, Thomas af Hällström and Peter Welch from the cabinet of Mr. David Bostock also playing an important role.
The audit included a survey to gather information from a wide group of participants.
Various cost accounting techniques have been used to complete and complete the information available to the Commission.
The audit found that the programme was managed in accordance with the Commission's usual approaches and guidelines.
However, the expenditure pattern was little targeted, and the monitoring and evaluation of the programme was not the basis for an assessment of the overall quality of the programme.
During the programme period, relatively high administrative costs (for the Commission, the Agency and the participants) were incurred, such as the amount paid to the participants during the same period.
The establishment of the Executive Agency had improved the satisfaction of the participants with the programme.
From left to right: Hendrik Fehr, Director (25 years at the Court), David Bostock, Member of the Court (7 years at the Court), Zoltán Giday, Audit Board (3 years at the Court), Peggy Vercauteren, Audit Board (5 years at the Court), Oliver Müller, Audit Board (6 years at the Court), Peter Welch, Head of Cabinet (13 years at the Court), Gerhard Ross, Head of Unit (11 years at the Court), Thomas af Hällström, Audit Board (8 years at the Court).
FINANCIAL INFORMATION BUDGET The Court's 2009 budget accounts for around 0.16% of the EU's total budget and 2.4% of the EU's institutions' and bodies' administrative appropriations.
Compared with 2008, a 41% increase was recorded, mainly because of the Court's budget for construction, because, after further staff increases, staff will be accommodated in a second extension building (K3 building), the completion of which is scheduled for 2013.
Negotiations on financing arrangements began with the budgetary authority in February 2008.
As a result, the construction project, the total cost of which is estimated at EUR 79 million, is financed by four successive annual budgets.
In October 2008, the budgetary authority approved a tranche of EUR 55 million for the 2009 budget.
Staff resources account for around 52% of the total budget in 2009.
2007 2008 BUDGET Members of the institution Officials and temporary staff Other staff and external services Mission expenses Other expenses for the members and staff of the institution Total Title 1 Buildings Computer and telecommunications Equipment and furniture: purchase, hire and maintenance Current operating expenses Meetings and conferences Total information and publications Title 2 Total Court of Auditors 11 270 82 583 4 014 3 000 2 056 102 923 8 126 5 518 1 396 435 872 1 810 18 157 110 519 2009 (in EUR 1 000) 11 718 92 086 4 4 497 3 290 2 684 114 275 62 891 6 269 981 439 868 1 921 73 369 187 644 12 061 88 712 4 248 3 212 2 286 12 110 5 879 1 147 121 080 132 769 425 876 1 813 22 250
In general, the aim is to assess the performance of individual services in the implementation of strategies, programmes and measures with the aim of continuous improvement.
In 2008, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused on the audit of the audit of the accounts (audit of accounting records), the audit of ex-ante audit, the recruitment procedure, the aid and allowances of staff recruitment, the maintenance of buildings, expenditure on utilities and services, implementation of the IT strategy, and a review of the IT control framework.
Most of the audit recommendations issued by the Internal Auditor in 2008 were accepted by the audited bodies and included in action plans for corrective action.
The Internal Audit Committee met six times in 2008 and focused on the follow-up to the Internal Auditor's recommendations.
Other topics included the Committee's own 2007 activity report and the Court's 2007 report to the discharge authority on the Office of the Internal Auditor.
The Internal Audit Committee held two meetings with the Court's independent auditor to discuss the state of the audit for the financial year 2007.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE HOFES In its opinion on the 2007 financial year (OJ C 318, 12.12.2008), the Court's independent auditor drew the following conclusions: on the financial statements: "We believe that the financial statements give an actual picture of the financial position of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2007 and of the financial position and the cash flows for the year ending at that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of that Council Regulation and the European Court of Auditors' accounting rules."
52
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-202-5 QJ-AA-09-001-EN-C
ISSN 1684-0666 ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2009 THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2009
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2010 ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518 © European Union, 2010 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
4 PRESIDENCY OF THE PRESIDENT 4 Welcome to reading the annual activity report of the European Court of Auditors for 2009.
The aim of this report is to provide readers with an overview of the main results and progress made by the Court during this year and to provide them with information on the main developments in its audit environment and in its internal organisation.
2009 was an important year of renewal for the EU, characterised by the election of a new European Parliament, the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and the start of the process for selecting a new European Commission.
The new Treaty confirms the role and mandate of the Court and its status as an EU institution and introduces changes to the management and control of EU funds, strengthening the role of the European Parliament and underlining the responsibility of the Member States for the implementation of the budget.
The Court expects these developments to provide good opportunities to improve EU financial management.
The section entitled ‘The Court's position' provides a summary of our opinion on the risks and challenges the new Commission will face.
The quality of EU spending is being improved by being given a high priority.
During this year, we have made considerable progress in implementing our 2009-2012 audit strategy and on the way to achieving our goals, in order to increase the impact of our work and improve the use of our resources.
A decisive step was our decision to submit to the Council of the European Union a new Rules of Procedure for approval to streamline our procedures for the adoption of reports and opinions.
In addition, the number of reports prepared by the Court increased from 42 in 2008 to 57 in 2009.
I am also pleased to report that our core product, the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, once again received a positive welcome from our main institutional addressees, the many of our recommendations agreed.
During 2009, the Court continued its active cooperation with the Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCs) in order to develop common approaches to the audit of EU funds and to consider how the SAIs can help governments to deal with the financial and economic crisis.
The Court's achievements depend on the competence and motivation of its 880 employees.
Their satisfaction is a key factor in the success of the Court, and it is the first time that this report has been quantified.
I would like to thank the Court's staff for their tireless and dedicated work to enable the Court to carry out its mission.
6 6 PROCUREMENT, GUIDE, VALUES AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES PROCUREMENT GUIDE VALUES The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances, in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, it contributes to improving EU financial management while acting as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
Integrity, Integrity AND Integrity Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, whose members and employees supply its addressees with appropriate audit results, rejecting any form of influence by instructions or external pressure PROFESSIONALITY respect for a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of its work VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Elaborating relevant, timely high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of its addressees, and taking into account important and forward-looking statements including acknowledgment of the value of individuals, assistance in the development of special skills and rewards of performance Active participation in the development of public financial control at EU level and in the world-wide promotion of team spirit, through effective communication enhancing efficiency in all aspects of its work participation in effective improvement of the management of the EU budget, and contributing to enhancing accountability for the management of EU financial resources, the promotion of team spirit through effective communication in all aspects of its work participation in the effective improvement of the management of the EU budget and the development of the accountability of the management of EU financial resources
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 7 PROFESSIONALITY OUTPUT ADRESSATE OUTPUT FURTHER DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH STRATEGY Consolidated audit methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards for EU funds, cooperation with the EU-ORKB, effective "community control framework for the selection of relevant audit topics, closeness to time, clarity and legibility of reports, quality of economic assessments, increase the impact of reports, deepening the relationship with the audited bodies in order to increase understanding of the audit process and to increase acceptance of audit results, use experience with the peer review process to strengthen and further strengthen the organisation, methods, procedures and results, and to achieve the highest level of efficiency, strengthening contacts with the European Parliament and the Council as the budgetary and discharge authority pursuing an effective and dynamic staffing policy, quality professional training; modernising the infrastructure Effective communication with EU citizens Implementing the IT strategies OBJECTIVE STRATEGY 2009-2012 the efficiency of the maxim of the 2009- to-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-dodo-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-dodo-do
8 ROLE AND WORK OF THE HOFE 8 AND OF THE WORK OF THE HOFE IS THE EU BUDGET The EU budget (2010) amounts to around EUR 123 billion, representing about 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 Member States.
However, for some Member States, EU funds play an important role in financing public activities, and the overall budget is considerable compared to the GNI of several Member States.
The European Union's revenue consists primarily of contributions of Member States derived from their gross national income (GNI – 76%), from customs duties and agricultural duties (the so-called traditional own resources – 12%) and from a contribution based on VAT collected by Member States (VAT – 11%).
BOX 1 – WHAT IS THE EU ENTRYING OUT OF THE EU?
The EU budget is financed by financial contributions from the Member States (mainly on the basis of the national GNI), customs and agricultural duties and VAT contributions.
The EU budget is largely used for uses other than national budgets, partly due to the different areas of responsibility.
Citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1, 1% Conservation and management of natural resources (mainly agriculture) 47,3% The EU's largest single spending area is agriculture and rural development, mainly in the form of payments to farmers, accounting for almost half of the budget expenditure.
Cohesion measures – regional and social development – which co-finance a wide range of projects, from road construction projects in Latvia to training for the unemployed in the Netherlands – are also a major part of the project.
This sector accounts for about one third of budgetary expenditure.
The European Union as a global player EU expenditure Source: European Union general budget for the financial year 2010. Administration 6.4% 6.3% Sustainable growth (mainly cohesion) 38.8%
The budget is established annually by the Council, i.e. by representatives of the Member States, and by the directly elected European Parliament, on the basis of the seven-year financial framework.
The European Commission shall draw up the budget and shall be responsible for its implementation.
The majority of the budget, in particular in the area of agricultural and cohesion policy expenditure, is implemented in cooperation with the Member States.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on the beneficiaries' own applications, whether farmers or project managers throughout the Union. 9
10 WHAT ROLE HAS THE HOF?
Democratic societies need correct, publicly accessible information as a basis for discussion and decision-making, both for improving financial management and for ensuring accountability.
In its role as an external auditor of the EU, the European Court of Auditors ensures that EU funds have been properly accounted for regardless of the place of use and spent in accordance with the relevant legislation and with due consideration of the requirement for optimum use of funds.
The Court's audit results are used by the Commission, Parliament and the Council, as well as by the Member States to improve EU financial management.
In addition to the Court's work, many national control authorities examine EU funds to the extent that they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
OVERVIEW OF INTERNATIONAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROLS OF EU BUDGET Commission (DGs, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing Bodies European Court of Auditors National Control Authorities National Level Internal Control External Control
(ACCOUNT OF ACCOUNTS) 2. Are the financial operations in all essential respects in line with the relevant legal and other regulatory framework?
(COMPLIANCE TEST) 3. Is budget management sound, i.e. has the use of resources been kept to a minimum (sparability), has the results been achieved with the minimum possible use of resources (economic) and has the objectives achieved (effectiveness) been achieved?
The Court shall publish the results of its audit work in the following types of reports: annual reports – the results of the audit of the accounts in the form of a statement of assurance on the implementation of the general budget2 and on the activities of the European Development Funds3.
Specific annual reports – with the results of the audit of the accounts of the Union's agencies and decentralised bodies.
11 1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
2 In accordance with the TFEU, the Court is obliged to make such a statement, or an audit opinion, on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The annual Statement of Assurance is generally known under the French acronym DAS (Déclaration donymy of Assurance).
12 HOW IS THE HOF PREPARED IN HIS TESTS?
The Court shall carry out its audit of the annual accounts of the EU in accordance with international audit principles in force in both the public and the private sectors.
However, the existing international auditing principles do not cover the Court's compliance audit.
The Court, together with national control authorities, actively participates in the further development of international auditing principles, driven by the standard-setting organisations (INTOSAI, IFAC)4.
In order to ensure that payments are consistent with the legal and other regulatory framework, the Court draws on the results of both its investigation of the monitoring and control systems to prevent, detect and rectify errors of legality and regularity and of a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
Other sources, such as statements by the management of the audited bodies in the form of the annual activity reports of the Commission's Directors-General and the work of other auditors, are also used to support the Court's conclusions.
In the case of economic audits, the Court uses a variety of audit methods to assess the management and monitoring systems and to assess performance data on the basis of the criteria derived from the legislation and on the basis of the principles of sound financial management.
When selecting subjects for its economic audits, the Court strives to identify areas of audit for which the greatest impact is to be expected, in terms of the potential to improve the economy, the economy and the effectiveness of EU expenditure, in terms of its potential for improvement.
3 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are based on international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) and on Council decisions on the association of overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to the ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see External Relations, Development and Enlargement) and partly through delegations in the beneficiary countries.
4 INTOSAI (International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions) – International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) – International Accountants Association.
BOX 2 – TESTING OF A SAMPLE OF PAYMENTS FROM THE EU BUDGET BY THE HOF 13 The Court does not have the necessary resources to verify in detail all the operations relating to the EU budget.
It therefore uses statistical sampling techniques to provide a representative result for the populations concerned.
The Court follows these processes up to the final beneficiary of the grant, for example a promoter in Italy.
Subsequently, the Court checks – often on the spot – whether the application complies with the actual circumstances.
As a representative sample, the results can be extrapolated to the relevant population, i.e. a specific revenue or expenditure area, to serve as the basis for an overall assessment assessment, together with information resulting from the assessment of management and control systems and other sources.
SELECTION OF A SAMPLE OF PROPOSALS Random selection of a representative sample Population of cohesion payments Payment to a promoter in Italy
14 TASKS AND RESPONSIBILITIES5 14 RESPONSIBILITY AND ORGANISATION The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body of 27 members, each with one member per Member State. The members are appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, for a term of six years.
Members shall elect a President from among them for a period of three years, with the possibility of re-election as well.
Five audit groups to which individual members of the Court are assigned prepare the reports and opinions for adoption by the Court.
The organization chart shows that there are four subject-related audit groups covering different budgetary areas and another audit group dealing with "horizontal" questions.
Furthermore, a Management Committee, composed of members of the Court, is responsible for preparing the Court's administrative decisions.
At the end of 2009, the Court sent the Council a proposal to amend its rules of procedure to allow certain categories of Court opinions and reports to be adopted instead of the entire College of Chambers.
These amendments will streamline and make the Court's decision-making more efficient by, inter alia, reducing the time taken to adopt decisions.
Each Chamber has two areas of competence: the first has the adoption of special reports, special annual reports and opinions, the second has the preparation of draft observations for the annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Funds, and draft opinions for adoption by the College.
As with the Court, decisions are taken by a majority of the members of the Board.
Members may attend meetings of all chambers, but may vote only in the chamber to which they have been assigned by the Court.
Of course, the whole College will continue to meet to discuss and adopt the documents for which the Court is solely responsible, for example the annual reports on the EU's general budget and the European Development Funds.
The role of the Management Committee will be strengthened.
The Committee shall be composed of the President of the Court of the Presidency and the Doyens of the Chambers.
Administrative matters, the consideration of which requires a Court decision, and decisions on procedural, policy or strategic matters, shall be prepared by the Committee before being submitted to the Court for adoption.
The Member shall then present the report to the audit group and to the Court and, after the adoption of the report, shall also present it to the European Parliament, to the Council and to other interested third parties.
5 Further details are available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
THE HOFF'S PERSONNEL The budget for the financial year 2009 provides for 880 posts for the European Court of Auditors (as at 31 December 2009).
The Court's staff working in the audit area shall be responsible for the planning and execution of audits and the preparation of the resulting draft reports.
The auditors work in teams of different sizes: For some specific audits, a team includes four or five auditors, while some of the Court's wider audits (e.g. audits of the accounts/compliance audits in the area of agricultural and cohesion expenditure with a view to the preparation of the annual statement of assurance) involve 20 or more auditors.
In general, auditors must obtain audit evidence, by means of audit procedures in Luxembourg, visits to the European Commission, and on-the-spot visits to the Member States, where the revenue accruing to the EU budget is generated and the actions financed from the EU budget are carried out.
The Court's reports and opinions must be accessible to readers throughout the Union, and the Court must also maintain contacts throughout the Union with public authorities and other bodies in the course of its audit work.
This would not be possible without the Court's translators translating his reports and opinions (in almost all cases in English or French) into 22 of the official languages of the Union.
They also translate correspondence between the Court and other bodies as required and, in some cases, assist the auditors in carrying out verification visits in the Member States.
The Court's administrative staff are responsible for a wide range of support tasks carried out in a multinational body operating in the EU context.
This concerns finance, accounting, budget, buildings, information technologies, transport, security, etc. The Secretary-General is the highest-ranking staff of the Court and is responsible for the Court's staff management and management. 15
16 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2009 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCZKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri GRETHEN (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVIČIEN) (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHAN-QUIN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONČIČ (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALLO MASSANET (ES) Nadejzz) KALLO (JKLOZÁ (D)
An updated version is available on the Court's website at www.eca.europa.eu.
18 18 OVERVIEW OF AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS6 The number of special reports was higher in 2009 than in previous years, while the number of opinions decreased.
The annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Funds were adopted as planned.
RESULTS 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Special reports 6 11 9 12 18 Annual reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 1 Special annual reports 20 23 29 29 37 Opinions 11 8 9 5 1 Annual reports for the 2008 financial year Every year the Court examines the annual accounts, revenue and expenditure of the EU.
The results of this review will be presented to the political bodies of the EU, the Parliament and the Council, in the Court's annual reports.
6 This section is intended to introduce the Court's reports and opinions and is not so much their summary of the content of the Court's reports.
For more information, see the full text of the documents adopted by the Court, which is published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET: SIX KERN ASSESSMENTS • The European Union's annual accounts give a true picture of the financial situation and results. • As regards the legality and regularity of operations, the overall results for 2008 reflect the improvements made in the financial management in recent years. • The overall progress made in 2008 is mainly due to the better results in the main theme of "Agriculture and Natural Resources improvements".
In the field of rural development, the estimated error rate is lower than in previous years, but still essential.
For the first time, the Court does not give a negative opinion on the subject of 'Agriculture and natural resources' as a whole. • The second, 'Cohesion', which accounts for almost a third of the budget, remains problematic as the most flawed budget.
The Court's estimate that at least 11% of the total amount of the reimbursements should not have been paid. • The recommendations made by the Court in the past in order to improve monitoring and control systems remain valid.
They should be considered as part of an ongoing process, in which the relevant measures can only be considered effective after some time. • In addition, special attention should be paid to those areas of expenditure in which the Court has to continue to complain of a high error rate.
In many cases, errors are a result of excessively complex regulations and regulations.
Therefore simplification remains a priority objective. 19
20 Unrestricted audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts The Court concluded that the annual accounts of the European Communities for 2008 give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Communities and of the results of its operations and cash flows for 2008 on all essential points.
Unrestricted audit judgements In 2008, the Court issued full audit judgements on ‘receipts', commitments on all themes, and payments on ‘education and citizenship' and ‘administrative and other expenditure' themes.
Limited audit opinions Payments in the "Agriculture and natural resources" theme, with the exception of rural development, were lawful and correct in all essential respects.
Payments in the theme 'Economy and finance', with the exception of the expenditure for the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development (FP6) of this theme, were lawful and correct in all essential respects.
Negative review assessments The Court gave negative review opinions on the subjects of cohesion, research, energy and transport and external aid, development and enlargement.
Payments in these themes have been affected by errors to an essential extent, albeit varying in extent.
Improving monitoring and control systems The monitoring and control systems in the areas of research, energy and transport, external assistance, development and enlargement, and education and citizenship, were ineffective in preventing, detecting and correcting the reimbursement of excessive or ineligible costs.
In the case of the ‘Agriculture and natural resources' theme, the Court also concluded that the monitoring and control systems were sufficiently effective.
However, he pointed out that the Integrated Management and Control System (InVeKoS) remains an effective control system in general.
However, improvements are needed in some areas, in particular rural development, where there are shortcomings.
In the case of the 'Economy and finance' theme, the monitoring and control systems have been found to be effective in two of the three areas examined.
In the third field, "Companies", systems were considered to be limited effective, mainly due to shortcomings in FP6.
In the case of cohesion, the Court found that the Member State systems devoted to the correction of errors detected in national controls were, in most cases, at least partially effective.
The Commission, the Member States and other beneficiary countries need to continue their efforts to implement the necessary improvements in the above-mentioned themes, in order to adequately control the risk of illegitimate expenditure.
BOX 3 – INTERPRETATION OF AUDIT DOCUMENTS 21 An auditor may issue the following types of audit opinions: • a full audit opinion if it is proven that the accounting is reliable or that the underlying transactions, i.e. the payments, are lawful and lawful in all essential respects; • a negative audit opinion if the error rate in the underlying transactions is substantial and comprehensive or the accounting is unreliable; • a refusal of the audit opinion if the auditor is unable to obtain sufficient and adequate audit evidence to support his audit opinion, and the possible effects are both substantial and comprehensive; a limited audit opinion if no full audit opinion can be delivered but the effects of differences or limitations in the scope of the audit are not sufficient or comprehensive to require a negative audit opinion or a refusal of the audit opinion.
22 BOX 4 – SUMMARY OF SUMMARY OF THE LEGALITY AND ORDER ACTIVITY OF THE PROPOSALS SUBJECT TO THE SUBJECT SUBJECT TO EXPENDITURE The following table summarises the overall assessment of the monitoring and control systems, as set out in the respective chapters of the 2008 Annual Report, and gives a rough overview of the results of the Court's audits of representative samples of operations.
The table provides the key messages but not all the relevant details (in particular the deficiencies in the monitoring and control systems and the types of errors) which can be found in the main part of the report.
SYSTEM ASSESSMENT SPANNE OF THE FIELD QUOTE Revenues Agriculture and natural resources: EUR 55 billion Cohesion: EUR 36.6 billion Research, energy and transport: EUR 7.5 billion External aid, development and enlargement: EUR 6.2 billion Education and citizenship: EUR 1.7 billion Economy and finance: EUR 0.6 billion Administrative and other expenditure: EUR 8.5 billion Monitoring and control systems assessment Not effective Not effective Effective Actuarial range in which the estimated FQ > 5 % 2 % ≤ FQ ≤ 5 % FQ < 2 % (below the error rate (FQ) is materiality threshold)
THE 2008 AUDIT AUTHORITY TO THE EDF The Court concluded that the 2008 EDF accounts give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the EDFs in all essential respects.
With regard to the legality and regularity of operations, the Court gave a full opinion on EDF revenue and commitments.
The Court also concluded that EDF payments were significantly affected by errors.
The Court assessed the monitoring and control systems for the EDFs as conditionally effective.
SPECIFIC ANNUAL REPORTS A further 37 special annual reports on the agencies and other decentralised bodies of the European Union for the financial year 2008 were also adopted in 2009.
The Union agencies shall carry out a wide range of tasks at different locations within the Union.
Each agency has a specific mission and manages its own budget.
The audits of the Union agencies and other decentralised bodies shall be the subject of specific annual reports which shall be published separately.
With the exception of the European Police College, the Court gave full audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts and on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for all agencies. 23
24 SPECIAL REPORTS7 The selection of topics for economic and compliance audits and their design is based on criteria such as the risk of the profitability of certain revenue and expenditures or their compliance with the legislation, the volume of expenditure, the date of the final audit, the upcoming developments regarding the regulatory or operational framework, and the political and public interest.
Since cost-effectiveness and compliance tests are complex and require a lot of detailed work, their full implementation, from the preliminary study to the final reporting, usually takes more than a year.
The Court adopted a total of 18 special reports in 2009.
The special reports are available directly on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) and a reference to their publication is published in the Official Journal.
As in previous years, the reports related to investigations into financial management in many different areas, ranging, for example, from EU food aid for the most deprived (No. 6/2009) to cash management at the Commission (No. 5/2009).
In addition to the 18 special reports, the Court analysed the use of EU funds in 2009 in order to move the Chernobyl site to an environmentally safe state.
Recommendations on how to improve the management of the EU funds made available through the EBRD were sent to the President of the Commission in a (unpublished) letter from the President of the Court.
The special reports adopted by the Court in 2009 are listed below by thematic area.
To illustrate the nature of the issues addressed and the conclusions reached, a brief report will be presented on each topic.
7 special reports are available on the Court's website or can be obtained by electronic order form from the EU Bookshop.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH • No 3/2009 "Effectiveness of expenditure under structural measures for waste water treatment during the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods" • No 7/2009 "Management of the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme" • No 8/2009 "Excellence networks and integrated projects in the Community research policy: have the objectives been achieved?" • No 13/2009 "Has the transfer of implementation tasks to executive agencies proved to be an appropriate instrument?" • No 17/2009 "Training activities for women co-financed by the European Social Fund" 25 "Management of the Galileo programme's development and validation phase" The Court examined the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme, which was launched with the aim of creating a European Global Satellite Navigation System (GNSS), and explained the causes of the misdevelopments identified.
It concluded that the development and validation phase was inadequately managed.
If the reorientation of the EGNOS (Geostationary Navigation Supplement Service for Europe) and Galileo programmes carried out in mid-2007 is to be successful, the Commission must significantly improve its programme management.
The report contains a number of recommendations designed to facilitate this task for the Commission.
Finally, in the event that the EU decides to engage in other major infrastructure programmes, the Commission must ensure that appropriate administrative tools are available to it.
The Commission's proposals, in particular, are in line with the objectives of the Commission's proposals, in particular the Commission's White Paper on the environment, the White Paper on the environment, and the White Paper on the environment, and the Commission's Green Paper on the environment and the environment, and in particular with the White Paper on the environment and environment, the White Paper, the Green Paper on the environment, and the Green Paper on the environment and the White Paper on the environment and the Green Paper on the environment and the Green Paper on the environment, the Green Paper on the environment and the White Paper on the environment, the Green Paper, the Green Paper on the environment and the Green Paper on the environment, the Green Paper and the White Paper on the future of the environment and environment, the White Paper on the Green Paper and the White Paper on the Green Paper on Green Paper on the future of the environment, the White Paper and the Green Paper on the Green Paper on the environment, the Green Paper on the Commission's Green Paper on the future of the future of the future, and the Green Paper on Green Paper on the future of the environment, the Green Paper on the Green Paper on the Environment, Green Paper and Green Paper on the environment, the Environment and Green Paper on the Green Paper on the Environment, Green Paper on the Green Green Paper on the Environment and the Environment, the Environment, the Environment and the Green Paper on the Green Environment, the Green Paper on the Green, the Environment, the Green Paper on the Green Paper and the Environment and the Environment and Green Green Environment and the Environment, the Green Paper, the Commission and Green Paper on the Green Paper on the Environment, the Green and the Green Paper
26 Have the market management instruments for the market in milk and milk products achieved their main objectives?
The Court took stock of the functioning of the market in milk and milk products since the introduction of milk quotas in 1984 and examined the Commission's approach to the management of the gradual deregulation of the dairy sector in 2003.
The situation at the end of 2008 is the basis for the Court's recommendations to the Commission: to prevent new overproduction, to monitor the process of price formation in the food chain, to deepen the reflection on the future of producers in disadvantaged areas and on the impact of the geographical concentration of milk production on the environment, to continue to focus milk production on meeting the needs of the European internal market and milk products with high added value, which can be exported without budget support to the world market.
EU CITIZENSHIP, FREEDOM, SECURITY AND JUSTICE • No 2/2009 ‘The European Union Public Health Programme (2003-2007): an effective way to better health?' European Union Public Health Programme (2003-2007): an effective way to better health?
The Court analysed the European Union Public Health Programme (PHP) for the period 2003-2007.
The Court's audit was intended to establish whether the framework conditions for projects financed by the EU budget were defined in a way that effectively complements Member States' measures to protect and improve public health.
The report shall contain detailed conclusions and recommendations on the design, implementation and management of the programme.
In the light of the Court's findings, the Court questions the benefits of certain part of the programme of European public health programmes, such as PHP.
The Commission and the Member States are invited to reconsider the EU's public health funding approach.
THE EU AS GLOBALER PARTNER • No 1/2009 "Banking activities in the Mediterranean region under the MEDA programme and the previous protocols • No 4/2009 "Administration of the involvement of non-state actors in Community development cooperation by the Commission • No 12/2009 "The effectiveness of Commission projects in the field of justice and home affairs in the Western Balkans • No 15/2009 "The EU's assistance provided through United Nations organisations: decision-making and monitoring • No 16/2009 "The European Commission's management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey • No 18/2009 "The effectiveness of EDF assistance for regional economic integration in East Africa and West Africa" 27 The European Commission's management of pre-accession assistance for Turkey The Court examined the management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey by the European Commission.
In particular, the first period of implementation of the pre-accession assistance (2002-2006) was characterised by many weaknesses that had already occurred in previous pre-accession programmes.
The objectives set by the Commission in respect of grants were not sufficiently concrete to allow an assessment of the impact of the project and the Commission did not have the information necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of the pre-accession assistance.
Nevertheless, the estimated outputs of the projects examined, and the results of the projects are likely to be sustainable, have been achieved.
The Commission has already made some significant improvements, but the Court has made recommendations for further corrective action.
Areas where improvements are most necessary include the definition of strategic objectives for financial assistance, the definition of more realistic deadlines for achieving objectives, and monitoring of actual project performance and results, using clear objectives and appropriate indicators.
28 MANAGEMENT • No 5/2009 ‘Commission management of funds' • No 9/2009 ‘Economic efficiency and effectiveness of staff selection activities of the European Personnel Selection Office' Economic efficiency and effectiveness of staff selection activities of the European Personnel Selection Office' The Court focused on the question of how the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) managed the sharp increase in the number of competitions resulting from the enlargement of the European Union and whether it provided timely aptitude lists containing the required number of successful candidates and was geographically balanced.
He concluded that the EPSO had successfully managed the increase in the number of competitions that resulted from the enlargement of the European Union.
However, the following weaknesses were noted: the staffing needs of the institutions were not reported to the EPSO in time, the staff selection process took too long, the selection process produced on average only two-thirds of the planned number of successful applicants (which were included in the aptitude list) and the management information was not consistently reliable or complete.
OPINIONS A further contribution of the Court to improving EU financial management is to deliver opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
Such opinions shall be required as part of the procedure for the adoption of financial provisions8 or may be made at the request of one of the other institutions of the Union9.
In 2009, the Court adopted an opinion on the proposal to amend the Regulation of the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market on the Office's financial rules (‘the Financial Regulation').
8 Article 322 TFEU.
9 Article 287(4) TFEU.
29 CONTINUING FOLLOW-UP AND EFFECTIVENESS The Court's audits are a direct source of information to decision-makers in the institutions concerned, in the European context primarily the European Commission, the Parliament, the Council and the Member States.
On the basis of this information, they may take measures, with or without reference to the Court's conclusions on the audit.
Although the Court's audit activities have their main effect on the reports and opinions published, they themselves have a certain effect throughout the course of the audit.
The replies from the audited body, particularly the Commission, will be 29 together. Examples of the impact of the Court's work will be the measures taken by the Commission in response to the 2007 discharge resolution (which, in the main, took effect in 2009): in the field of agricultural expenditure, the management and control system for expenditure under the newly created European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) has been aligned with the EAGF guarantee system, so that the largely recognised benefits of that system will also apply to EAFRD expenditure (see point 5.54 of the 2004 annual report and point 5.57 of the 2007 annual report).
In the area of cohesion The Commission is continuing to work on the revision of the rules applicable to 2007-2013 to simplify the system of reporting irregularities, and is committed to the preparation, at the beginning of 2010, of a report on the measures implemented in 2009 and the initial impact of all the measures in its action plan to strengthen the Commission's supervisory role in the management of structural measures (see points 1.53 and 6.36(a) of the 2007 Annual Report).
In the field of external policies In order to strengthen controls at the level of the implementing organisations, the Commission plans to develop a specific instrument to better support these organisations in the management of EU funds and compliance with EU rules (see point 8.33(a) of the 2007 Annual Report).
In the field of internal policies, including research The Commission has developed a multiannual control strategy for the Sixth Framework Programme based on the detection and correction of errors, which could not be detected prior to the implementation of the payment by file checks.
In order to simplify the procedures of the Seventh Framework Programme, the Commission introduced a Participant Guarantee Fund to significantly reduce the number of ex ante financial controls and the safeguard measures to be introduced (see points 7.43(b), 10.34 and 2.42(a) of the 2007 annual report).
Source: Commission report to the European Parliament on the follow-up to the 2007 discharge decisions.
The special reports will also be taken into account in the discharge procedure.
Due to the fact that they are published during the course of the year, the presentation of the special reports and the debate on them have usually taken place at an earlier stage at the meetings of Parliament and the Council.
The impact of the audit reports can be enhanced by their thematicisation in the relevant media, which brings greater attention and stimulates public debate.
As a rule, media coverage of the Court's annual report is quite comprehensive.
This was also the case in 2009, with the media focusing mainly on improvements in agricultural spending.
Several special reports were also followed with interest by the press.
For example, the special report on the milk market (No 14/2009) assessing the extent to which the management tools for the market for milk and milk products have achieved their main objectives was the subject of intensive discussions in the Council and Parliament, and in response to a wide variety of problems in the media and to the professional groups concerned.
The Court is working to further analyse the impact of its activities.
In 2009, it started to develop a systematic follow-up to its special reports to identify and document progress made by the audited bodies in addressing the weaknesses identified and in implementing the recommendations made.
This procedure will provide the Court, as well as Parliament and other interested parties, with additional feedback on the impact of its activities.
31 POSITION OF THE COURT OPINION No 1/2010 – IMPROVEMENT OF THE EUROPEAN UNION'S FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT: RISKS AND CHALLENGES In February 2010, the Court's first opinion on measures that could reduce the level of irregular payments at EU level and improve the quality of expenditure (sparability, efficiency and effectiveness).
The Court concluded that, in order to enhance recent progress in reducing the level of irregular payments, legislation in high-risk areas needs to be simplified and more cost-efficient control systems established.
Such reforms should be carried out in the context of the ongoing broader review of EU spending arrangements.
The Court considers that improving the quality of expenditure is of high priority, which can be achieved by applying the European added value approach to the definition of expenditure priorities and by addressing the specific problems identified by the Court in the selection, design and implementation of expenditure programmes and grant schemes.
OBJECTIVES ON THE FIELDS CONCERNED ON THE STRENGTH OF SPECIFIC PAYMENTS Although the level of irregular payments from the EU budget as a whole has declined, it remains high in the areas of cohesion and external aid, development and enlargement, as well as in the framework programme of research and technological development and in the expenditure on rural development.
Most irregularities are due to the notification of ineligible expenditure by the beneficiaries, the notification of ineligible expenditure and the non-compliance with payment conditions, for example in the area of public procurement rules.
They are primarily due to the complexity of the rules and the terms and conditions of payment and to the shortcomings in the systems to manage the risks at the level of the final beneficiaries.
SIMPLIFICATION OF SIMPLE LEGAL FRAMEWORK CONDITIONS AND IMPROVEMENT OF MONITORING AND CONTROL The Commission should address the specific system deficiencies identified by the Court in the high-risk areas and improve its oversight.
But with an increasing number of controls and correspondingly falling error rates, the point at which the cost of controls is no longer proportionate to the benefit achieved is at some point reached.
Simplification should therefore remain a priority objective.
Clearly interpreted and easy to apply rules and legislation can reduce not only the risk of errors but also the control costs. 31
32 IMPROVING THE CONCEPT OF EXPENDITURE PROGRAMMES In addition to simplification, the Commission should ensure that clear targets are set when revising existing and designing new measures.
Often more sense of reality, greater transparency and accountability are needed.
To this end, the Commission could further strengthen existing procedures for the development of future policies, in particular the ex ante evaluation and impact assessment.
The Court proposes to clarify the concept of European added value in an appropriate political statement or in EU legislation in order to provide guidance to the EU political authorities in the definition of expenditure priorities.
The Court considers that the Commission should complete the budget review as soon as possible and take into account the results of the preparation of the financial framework that starts in 2014.
Improving the quality of expenditure should be of high priority for the institutions of the European Union and should therefore be the main objective of the new Commission.
33 PROPOSALS FOR 201010 The Court presents its future audit work each year in a work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, which is available to the public on the Court's website.
The work programme shall provide interested parties with information on new and ongoing audits and on planned reports.
The Court developed an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012, based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of the audits and improving efficiency through the best possible use of resources.
These objectives will be decisive in the Court's 2010 work programme and its efforts to improve continuously.
The Court aims to maximise the overall impact of its audits over the period concerned by: • selecting and developing audits focussing on issues from risk areas and of the Court's greatest interest to the audience; • continuing to provide sound audit conclusions and useful suggestions for improvement; and monitoring the implementation of these proposals; • carrying out a broader range of audits and presenting new types of audit products complementing the current annual and special reports; • developing a larger number of special reports and improving their proximity and ease of use; • developing relations with its main addressees, including the relevant parliamentary committees, as well as with the media and the general public; and the Court aims to improve efficiency by making the best use of its resources over the period in question.
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
33 10 A more complete and detailed review of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2010 work programme, which is available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
34 The Court has selected certain audit priorities for the 2010 work programme, including: • the multi-annual nature of the bulk of Community expenditure, including flat-rate corrections and recoveries; • innovation and the internal market; • human capital; • sustainable energy; • the Commission's strategy to simplify the legal framework for businesses and citizens.
FOURTH FOURTH FOUNDATION FOR A NEW BUILDING On 1 July 2009 the foundation stone for a new building, the second extension of the European Court of Auditors, was laid in Luxembourg.
Vítor Caldeira, President of the European Court of Auditors, Claude Wiseler, Luxembourg Minister of Buildings, Patrick Gillen, President of the Fund d'urbanisation et d'aménagement du Kirchberg, and Eduardo Ruiz García, General Secretary of the Court, signalled the start of the construction work with the symbolic groundbreaking ceremony.
This extension of the European Court of Auditors' two-building complex will enable the staff recruited as part of the successive Union enlargements.
The Court will endeavour to extend its range of audit-related reporting types in 2009-2012.
To this end, it will coordinate with its main external addressees in order to ensure that it will gain a clear understanding of their different needs and of how it can best meet its expectations in order to fulfil its mandate under the Treaty.
A considerable proportion of the resources available to the Court will be used to audit the accounts with a view to drawing up a Statement of Assurance (the so-called 'DAS').
This requires the examination and examination of the accounts and the operations of the general budget of the EU for each financial year.
The European Development Funds and each of the 40 European agencies and agencies will be subject to separate declarations of assurance.
The audit work runs from June of year n to June of year n+1 in order to publish annual reports in accordance with the Financial Regulation in November of year n+1.
The Statement of Assurance for the financial year 2009 will therefore be drawn up and published in 2010 and the Statement of Assurance for the financial year 2010 will start at the same time11.
The Court's work aims at presenting clear conclusions on the level of accounting and budgetary management in the various areas of the general budget and at presenting appropriate and cost-effective recommendations where improvements are possible.
The Court's annual report on the general budget for the financial year 2009 will continue to be in line with the structure established in 2007 and taking into account the redeployment of the budget12.
The findings are presented in chapters relating to coherent groups of policy areas, which are largely, but not entirely, in line with the headings of the new financial framework.
Furthermore, the Court will be particularly concerned to make its results and conclusions clearer and more coherent in order to make them more comprehensible and readable, and to make it easier to compare within and between the themes and between them and between the financial years.
35 11 Further information on the DAS approach is available on the Court's website at www.eca.europa.eu.
12 The Court has set up a DAS think tank to review various aspects of the DAS review approach. In this context, it has also been considered to redefine the areas of the specific assessments.
36 36 MEASUREMENT AND IMPROVEMENT OF CENTRAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2008, the Court decided to establish a system of central performance indicators (CLI) for its audit-related and non-audit-related activities to measure performance in achieving the Court's strategic objectives and the objectives set out in the annual work programmes.
ZLI serves to strengthen internal and external accountability and to enhance work efficiency and quality. WOZU CENTRAL SERVICES INDICATORS? • To inform management of how successful the Court as an institution implements what it has undertaken; • To support the decision-making process by focusing the institution's attention on efficiency issues and promoting improvements; • To provide the audience with information on relevant aspects of the Court's performance.
The CCIs primarily concern the achievement of the Court's strategic objectives as they cover the quality of the audit, the output, the impact and the economic management of the Court's resources.
They provide information on the Court's performance as "company " and are an integral part of the Court's management system.
THE CENTRAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF THE COURT 37 ZLI 1 Evaluation of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the main addressees of the Court's reports ZLI 2 Assessment of the quality and impact of the audit activities of the Court by the audited CLI 3 Evaluation of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by a panel of external experts ZLI 4 Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audited CLI 8 External audit of the Court's financial management: a) Assessment of the audited CLI 5 Number of reports accepted by the audited CLI 6 Number of reports accepted by the CLI 6 Number of reports accepted on time ZLI 7 Percentage of audit reports issued on time ZLI 8 External audit of the Court's financial management: a) Assessment of the independent auditor's audit opinion b) Decision of the discharge authority ZLI 9 Degree of satisfaction of the Court's staff ZLI 10 Average number of training days per person Quantity and quality of audit work can also be improved if the Court's financial management effects and opinions are considered.
Four key performance indicators (1 to 4) are used to measure the impact of the Court's work.
They were included in the Court's 2010 annual work programme.
38 Number of reports adopted compared with the number of reports planned In 2009, the Court adopted 91 % of the planned number of reports.
The annual report and all special annual reports were adopted as planned.
Of the planned 24 special reports, only 18 were adopted.
The remaining six special reports were still in the final drafting phase as at 31 December 2009.
Number of reports adopted on time In 2009, the Court adopted 67% of its reports within the specified timeframe.
The annual report and all special annual reports were adopted on time.
Due to delays in the special reports, the Court failed to meet the target set for the CLI 6. Further efforts are needed to improve compliance with the deadlines for the adoption of the special reports.
Measurement of the number of key audit notices prepared on time The Court shall transmit its preliminary audit results to the audited body in an audit notice.
It aims to increase the proportion of the audit notifications submitted on time by 10 % per year, the long-term objective being to produce 80 % of the audit notifications within the given timeframe (two months after the final audit visit).
In 2009, the number of audit notices issued on time increased by 16% compared to 2008.
External evaluation of the Court's financial management: a) independent auditor's audit opinion, b) decision of the discharge authority The independent auditor of the Court delivered a full audit opinion on the annual accounts and the use of resources, and the European Parliament, on a positive recommendation from the Council, gave discharge.
Degree of satisfaction of the Court's staff In an internal employee satisfaction survey conducted in 2009, 86% of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with their work (target: 80%), while the overall level of staff satisfaction was 2.8 on a scale of 4 (target: 2.5).
Average number of days of training for examiners (excluding language courses) In accordance with guidelines published by IFAC (International Federation of Accountants), the Court strives to provide the examiners with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training.
In 2009, the average was four days.
39 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court continued its international cooperation through the following bodies: • The Contact Committee, composed of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States and the Court, • the Network of Supreme Audit Institutions of the Countries applying for EU membership, • the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI) and • the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI).
The Court contributed to the annual meetings of these organisations and to the improvement of international audit principles and procedures and was also actively involved in the committees and working groups set up by these organisations.
In particular, he took on the following tasks: • Chair of the Working Groups "Common Audit Standards" and "VAT"; • Participation in the Working Groups "Reports of National SAIs" and "Structural Funds" set up by the Contact Committee; • Participation in the EUROSAI Environmental Working Group and the IT Working Group; in the EUROSAI Group, which prepares a guide on best practices in achieving quality, in the EUROSAI Training Committee and in the EUROSAI Task Force on the Audit of Disaster Aid Funds; • Chair of the INTOSAI Working Group on Accountability and Audit of Disaster Aid; • Participation in the INTOSAI Subcommittees on Guidelines for Auditing Accounting, Audit of Compliance with Legal Standards and for Economic Audits; and in the Task Force on the Global Financial Crisis.
40 40 PERSONAL AND SUPPORT SERVICES The Court's most important capital is its employees.
As of 31 December 2009, the staff of the Court amounted to 880 staff (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of the staff, 525 (including 115 staff in the members' cabinets) were in charge of audit tasks, 163 were in the capacity of translators, 171 were in charge of administrative support, and 21 were in the capacity of the President.
The Court's employees have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
DECEMBER 31 DECEMBER'S PLANTS (occupied and vacant posts) Translation Administrative support The Court has committed itself to achieving its strategic goal of improving efficiency through the best possible use of resources.
In 2009, it therefore continued to explore and exploit the potential for efficiency gains in all its activities by simplifying procedures and streamlining services.
In particular, the resources of the support services, which have become available through efficiency gains, have been deducted as far as possible from these services and made available for audit-related tasks.
This process has not yet been completed and its impact will be even more evident in 2010.
For human resources, the Court, as a central performance indicator (ZLI 9), has established the assessment of the level of satisfaction of the Court's staff (see page 37).
A satisfaction survey was carried out to provide information on this subject and to support the decision-making process in this area.
The Court is currently implementing measures to ensure that opportunities to achieve better results are fully exploited in the coming years.
2008 173 2009 Audit related tasks 501 525 163 163 171 20 21 Presidential services Total 857 880
SHARE OF MEN AND WOMEN The proportion of men and women was almost the same.
12.2001 12.2009 The graphs below show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2009.
Like the other European institutions, the Court pursues an equal opportunities policy in terms of human resources management and recruitment and recognises the need to promote equal treatment of men and women in recruitment to higher management levels more actively.
17 of the 64 directors and departmental/referee heads (26.5%) are women and this represents a slight increase in the proportion of women since 2008 (24%).
Most of them, however, work in the Translation Directorate and in the Administrative Services.
The increase in the number of women in the AD function group reflects the results of the recent recruitment wave.
43 % of employees in grades AD5 to AD8 are female.
Directors and Head of Unit 2008 2009 41 54% 46% 51% 49% 76% 24% 73.5 % 26.5 %
42 auditors – Administrators (AD) 2008 2009 Assistants – Secretaries (AST) 2008 2009 The chart below shows the age profile of the 862 members of staff of the Court in active employment as at 31 December 2009 shows that the Court is a "young" institution (61% of the staff are not older than 44 years).
Among the 99 Court staff aged 55 or over, there are 24 of the 64 Directors and Department/Heads of Division, which means that, over the next five to ten years, there will be extensive new staffings in the senior management levels.
170 150 131 103 63 34 267 % 33% 37% 27% 73% 37% 67% ALTERSPROFILE 161 47 1 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65
TERMINATION The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the staff of both officials and temporary staff.
General selection procedures for Court posts are organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The Court also provides placements for a limited number of university graduates for periods of three to five months.
In 2009, the Court hired 112 employees: 69 officials, 14 temporary staff and 29 contract staff.
The recruitment depends on whether reserve lists of EPSO competitions are available and sufficient.
In 2009, the Court succeeded in recruiting an adequate number of new staff.
73 vacancies not filled at 31 December 2009 could be reduced by 33% to 49 by 26 January 2010. The number of vacancies will continue to fall sharply in the coming months, as the latest recruitment wave will see the number of additional audit staff coming into service.
At 31 December 2008, 68 posts were not filled.
The reserve list for recruitment on the basis of the EPSO AD/126/08 selection procedure was published in August, and the first successful candidates first entered the Court in early November, i.e. only three months later.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING The occupation of the examiner requires continuous training.
In addition, due to the specific circumstances of the audit environment of the Court, the auditors need good knowledge of foreign languages.
In 2009, the Court's staff completed an average of nine days of professional training.
Language courses accounted for 64% of the total number of training days in 2009 (compared to 48% in 2008).
Without taking into account the language courses, the examiners completed four days of professional training in 2009 (see ZLI 10 on page 38).
This figure is expected to increase in 2010 as new staff are required to undergo a mandatory training programme.
Based on the long-term strategic objective of "Development and growth" and the 2008-2011 Curriculum for continuing education and training and the continuing education pathways adopted in 2009, the "Vocational training" Unit has improved the content of the training and developed new training courses in line with the priorities adopted by the Court.
Cooperation with the other institutions and with interinstitutional bodies such as the European School of Administration has also been successfully pursued.
Box 5 provides a portrait of the staff of the examination staff within the Court in order to give the reader a picture of the work carried out and the persons involved. 43
44 BOX 5 – THE TEAM COMPETENT TO THE TEST ON "JUSTIC AND ONLY IN THE ESTAL BALKAN" The Western Balkan region was characterised by violence in the past.
The European Union's interest in this region is to promote security and long-term stability.
The rule of law, border security and the fight against corruption are essential prerequisites for EU accession and are a major challenge in the Western Balkans.
The European Commission is the main donor of funding in the region.
The Court's 2009 report on the effectiveness of Commission projects in the field of justice and home affairs in the Western Balkans (Special Report No 12/2009) provided an insight into the situation in this particularly important area.
The audit covered investment projects as well as institutional building projects in the four areas of asylum, integrated border management, justice and police.
33 completed projects were assessed on the spot, including an asylum centre, a prison in Albania, and a court in Bosnia and Herzegovina responsible for human rights and war crimes.
In addition, several EU-funded border crossing points in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia were visited to assess whether EU action has led to improvements.
The team responsible for conducting the audit worked closely with the rapporteur, Maarten B. Engwirda.
The heads of the audit unit were Raija Peltonen and Ossi Louko, and the team leader was Jussi Bright.
The examiners involved were Enrico Grassi and Miroslav Matej, with Horst Fischer and Jan Pieter Lingen from Maarten B. Engwirda's cabinet also playing an important role.
From left to right: Raija PELTONEN, Head of Unit; Jan Pieter LINGEN, Head of Cabinet; Horst FISCHER, Head of Cabinet; Jussi BRIGHT, Chief Auditor; Maarten B. ENGWIRDA, Member of the Court; Ossi LOUKO, Head of Unit; Enrico GRASSI, Chief Auditor; Miroslav MATEJ, Auditor; M. E.
TRANSLATION Translation is an important activity of audit support that allows the Court to fulfil its mission and to fulfil its communication objectives.
In 2009, the total volume of translation increased by 5.2% compared to 2008.
The proportion of translation services provided on time was over 95 %.
The linguistic support of the auditors in connection with audit visits and in the drafting of reports has been increased.
Furthermore, the Directorate of Translation, INTOSAI working groups, supported other specific needs related to the audit activities of the Court.
In January 2010, a new computerised application (Artemis) for the more efficient management of translation work was introduced.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology provides the auditors with essential tools and services.
In 2009, the main developments were as follows: • the simplification of processes and the continuation of the changeover to a paperless office through the application of automated permits and electronic forms, the introduction of electronic signatures and the introduction of work to establish an archive database; • the improvement of the security of the Court's IT infrastructure through the establishment of a data recovery centre and the introduction of a more advanced version of the Lotus Note platform, the Court's basic structure for the Court's news and audit documentation/archiving systems; • the adoption of a long-term IT plan for the period 2010-2012, to align information technology with the Court's main audit strategic objectives and to continue efforts to provide high-quality services. 45
46 MANAGEMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE The Directorate "Finance and Support Services" is responsible for administrative services and infrastructure.
These include internal controls and accounting and administrative and logistical services.
In 2009, the Directorate focused on reorganising its services to improve efficiency and effectiveness and to release staff to reorganise to the benefit of audit services.
This reorganisation led to a reduction in the number of units in the Directorate (from five to three) and the implementation of several posts in audit services.
An important activity of the Directorate concerned the construction of a new courtyard building (the K3 building).
In 2009, a project manager was appointed after a call for tenders.
Construction will start in March 2010 and is expected to be completed in 2013.
The time and cost framework set for the project will continue to be respected.
TEST TEST In the course of the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to the Member States and to other recipient countries of EU funds in order to obtain adequate audit evidence.
The visits are usually carried out by central and local authorities involved in granting, managing and disbursing EU funds, as well as by their final beneficiaries.
The audit teams usually consist of two to three examiners, and the duration of an audit trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of audit and the distance.
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Authorities of the Member State visited, which provide useful logistical and practical support.
The following graph gives an overview of the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in 2009 in the EU Member States (300).
In addition, 36 verification visits took place outside the Union in 2009.
47 50 40 30 20 10 0 TESTS IN THE MEMBER STATES ( TOTAL: 300) 48 34 30 23 17 17 16 15 15 14 88 77 666 4 333 2222 11 France Germany Spain Italy Greece United Kingdom Poland Portugal Belgium Netherlands Denmark Hungary Austria Sweden Czech Republic Slovakia Lithuania Ireland Slovenia Latvia Romania Cyprus Finland Bulgaria Luxembourg Malta Estonia
In 2009, the overall budget implementation rate was more than 92 %.
For Title 1 (members and staff of the institution), this rate is 88%, the lowest in Chapter 14 (other staff and external services) (82 %), mainly due to the non-or under-employment of posts and the savings achieved.
For Title 2 (buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure), the average execution rate is close to 100%.
The amount of payments charged to Chapter 20 (buildings) depends on the construction of the second extension of the courtyard (K3 building).
The first tranche of financing for this project, which amounted to EUR 55 million, was approved for the 2009 budget, this amount being committed and partly paid in 2009.
The remaining funds for the K3 building were transferred to 2010 and are intended to cover the costs incurred by the project manager on behalf of the Court on the basis of contracts with construction companies.
The funds will be used in the manner set out in the Court's request to the European Parliament and to the Council at the end of 2008.
FINANCIAL YEAR 2009 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services Final appropriations 11 718 91 986 4 597 3 290 Commitments 11 318 79 903 3 800 Payments (1 000 euros) 11 205 79 744 3 763 2 148 1 678 98 538 7 313 3 604 718 275 655 1 055 13 620 112 158 Utilization of appropriations in % (commitments/allocated appropriations) 96.59 86.86 82.66 86.66 87.66 99.97 99.84 94.12 91.75 99.09 97.22 99.74 92.39
BUDGET 2010 The Court's 2010 budget accounts for around 0.1% of the EU's overall budget, or 1.87 % of the EU's institutions and bodies' administrative appropriations.
The table below shows the breakdown of appropriations by budget line.
Personnel resources account for around 76% of the total budget in 2010.
The 2010 budget budget was reduced by 21% compared to 2009, mainly on the basis of the reduction in budget for the new Court building (C3).
Construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at EUR 79 million, which will be financed in four consecutive years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 6 million in 2012.
49 BUDGET 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 210 – Computer and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 – Furniture and associated expenditure 23 – Current operating expenses 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications 2010 4 590 3 450 2 861 877 404 868 2 389 29 421 2009 4 497 3 290 2 684 981 439 868 1 921 2008 13 364 94 246 11 718 92 086 (1 000 Euro) 12 061 88 712 4 248 3 212 2 2 286 20 – Building Title 1 Total 118 511 18 518 6 365 114 275 62 891 6 269 110 519 12 110 5 879 1 147 425 876 1 813 Title 2 Total 73 369 Court of Auditors 147 932 177 644 22 250 132 769
50 SERVICE "INTERNE REVISION" The "Internal audit" department of the Court is intended to assist the Court in the implementation of its objectives by a systematic and methodological evaluation of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures.
In addition, the Internal Audit Service makes proposals to increase the efficiency of the Court.
This requires a continuous evaluation of internal control systems within the Court to assess their effectiveness.
In 2009, the Court's Internal Audit department focused its work on auditing the accounts (audit of accounts), auditing ex-ante controls, auditing the salary list and deposit accounts, monitoring of contracts and public procurement procedures, and analysis of the promotion procedure.
Most of the audit recommendations issued by the Internal Auditor in 2009 were accepted by the audited bodies and included in corrective action plans.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee shall monitor the activities of the Internal Auditor and ensure the independence of the Court.
It shall also examine and approve the work programme and the internal auditor's reports and, if necessary, entrust them with specific audit tasks.
In 2009, the Internal Audit Service was audited and certified by an independent auditor, Deloitte S.A.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE HOFES The report of the independent auditor on the annual accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2008 was published on 23 October 2009 in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJ L 73, 23.3.2009, p.
In its audit opinion, the Court's independent auditor (PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL) concluded on the following: ‘As regards the annual accounts, we believe that accounts give a true picture of the Court's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2008 as well as of the financial position and cash flows for the year ending on that reference date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the above Council Regulation and of the Court of Auditors' accounting rules.' For the use of resources and the control procedures: ‘Based on our work described in this report, we have not encountered any facts on which we should conclude that, in all the essentials and in the light of the above assessment criteria, the resources allocated to the Court have not been used for the purposes in question, and (b) the control procedures in place do not give the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the rules in force and the regulations.
52 52 DECLARATION OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE DECLARATION DECLARATION I, the undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, that the information provided to the Court for the preparation of this report is accurate and accurate13, and • confirms with reasonable certainty that, the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions14.
This sufficient security shall be based on the assessment of the undersigned and on the information available to him, such as the results of ex post controls, the internal auditor's reports and the reports of the independent auditor on previous financial years.
The undersigned confirms that he has no knowledge of any unreported circumstance that might harm the interests of the institution.
Luxembourg, 12 February 2010 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary General 13 "Right and accurate" means that a reliable, complete and correct image of the state of the service is provided.
14 The term ‘participating transactions' refers, in this context, to transactions for which the undersigned is the authorising officer by delegation.
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2009 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2010 – 52 pp. – 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518
Where can I obtain EU publications? Publications subject to payment: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • via the bookstore with the title, the publisher and/or the ISBN number; • directly via one of our sales outlets.
You can obtain their contact details on the Internet (http://bookshop.europa.eu) or by sending a fax to +352 2929-42758.
Free publications: • via the EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at the European Commission's representations and delegations.
You can obtain their contact details on the Internet (http://ec.europa.eu) or by sending a fax to +352 2929-42758. www.eca.europa.eu
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 QJ-AA-10-001-EN-C
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2010
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS DIRECTORY VALUES The Court of Auditors is committed to the following values: The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, it contributes to the improvement of EU financial management and, at the same time, acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens by promoting accountability and transparency.
An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors of integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism, quality and impact, and providing its users with valuable support for improving EU financial management.
INDUSTRIALITY, INTEGRATION AND INDUSTRIALITY PROFESSIONALITY VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution whose members and staff produce relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, take into account the concerns of its addressees and address important and indicative statements, include recognition of the individual's value, support in the further development of special skills and reward of performance, support for team spirit through effective communication, delivery of its addressee circle, with appropriate audit results, rejecting any form of influence through external guidance or pressure, safeguarding a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of its work, active participation in the further development of public financial control at EU level and worldwide, increasing efficiency in all aspects of its work, participation in effective improvement of the management of the EU budget and contribution to strengthening accountability for the management of EU financial resources
3 CONTENTS Page 4 – 5 7 9 – 25 9 – 22 23-25 26–45 26–27 28–33 34–39 40–42 43–45 PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT FOR THE PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT 2010 AT A LICK OF OUR ACTIVITIES Audit reports and opinions Cooperation with other SAIs OUR MANAGEMENT Implementation of the strategy for 2009-2012 Measurement of the Court's performance in 2010 Audit support Financial information Auditing and accountability
4 PRESIDENCY OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome to reading the fourth edition of the Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors. This year we took the opportunity to regroup the content, namely the two main sections, "Our Activities", and "Our Management", and, for the first time, provide an overview of all the performance indicators.
In 2010, the Court of Auditors had two important opportunities to participate in the debate on the reform of EU financial management.
At the beginning of the year, the Court presented an opinion to the new Commission on the main risks and challenges of improving EU financial management and at the end of the year an opinion on the Commission's proposals to amend the financial regulation applicable to the EU's general budget.
With a view to 2011, the Court will continue to implement its values and will continue to expand the performance and results achieved.
We will once again present high-quality, independent and objective reports and opinions, which will contribute to improving EU financial management and to promoting accountability and transparency, and the Court will, in particular, continue to closely monitor developments in the EU's economic governance and will address the new legislative proposals that will affect EU financial management after 2013.
We plan to publish 45 annual reports, i.e. the annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget and on the European Development Funds, as well as the special annual reports on the agencies, institutions and other bodies.
Special reports provide an important opportunity to achieve added value by focusing on areas at high risk and on issues of particular relevance to the target group.The Court intends, in particular, to report on the quality of EU expenditure in a wide range of areas ranging from financial instruments and the SME Guarantee Facility to EU-funded projects in the field of eGovernment and the Single Payment Scheme in agriculture.
In further implementing its strategy for 2009-2012, the Court hopes to fully capitalise on the benefits of its recent reforms, including the streamlined decision-making process, the Court will continue its efforts to recruit appropriate staff, to limit vacancy to a minimum, and to promote the professional development of its staff.
Without the commitment and professionalism of all the staff of the farm, we would not have achieved what we have achieved in 2010.
Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President 5 7 2010 AT A GLANCE OF OUR ACTIVITIES o Annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund for the financial year 2009 o 40 special annual reports on the various agencies, bodies and other bodies of the EU for the financial year 2009 o 14 special reports, mainly on economic audits o opinion on the improvement of the EU budget o 5 other opinions on new or amended EU acts, including on the proposal to amend the Financial Regulation o the participation of the European Parliament and of the Council in international audit practice in the field of public financial control and of the professional community, including on the preparation of new standards for the control of audits on new and amended EU acts o pilot projects with coordinated audits of the audit of agricultural expenditure, with the participation of the supreme audit authorities of the Netherlands and the Czech Republic OUR MANAGE o the presentation of an opinion on all the key performance indicators, showing that the main addressees are quite satisfied with the quality of the Court's work o the revision of Court's rules of procedure with the introduction of chambers on the control of the introduction of administrative procedures o the new staff in respect to the improvement of the procedure and of staff' staff' administrative rules, and of the annual
9 OUR ACTIVITIES AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are the following: o Annual reports – with the results of its audits of the accounts and compliance audits of specific financial years (including the specific annual reports of the agencies, bodies and other bodies of the European Union, published separately); o Special reports – with the results of its selected audits, with the main focus on economic audits to assess the economy, economic efficiency and effectiveness of selected EU revenue and expenditure sectors; o Opinions on draft legislative acts with financial implications.
Number of reports and opinions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports (EU agencies, bodies and other bodies) 23 29 29 37 40 Special reports 11 9 12 18 14 Opinions 8 9 5 1 6 The full version of each report and opinion is available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
1 OJ C 303, 9.11.2010. The main statements of the annual report were as follows: • The annual accounts of the European Union are accurate in terms of the financial situation and the results of transactions and cash flows in all essential areas. • With the exception of two expenditure areas ("Economic and Financial Affairs", and "Administrative and other expenditure"), the budget payments continue to be substantially affected by errors. • The Court estimates that the most likely error rate in expenditure in the cohesion issue was significantly lower than in previous years and the budget as a whole lower than the error rate estimated by the Court in recent years. • The Commission has improved its report on the recovery of unduly paid amounts and other corrections.
However, this information is not yet fully reliable, and the Commission's information on corrective action does not allow a meaningful comparison to the error rate estimated by the Court. In the report, the Court makes recommendations on how financial management could be improved by strengthening administrative systems and simplifying rules and regulations.
The Annual Report on the European Development Funds for 2009 The Court published its Annual Report on the European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2009 on 9 November 2010, together with the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2009.
The special annual reports on EU agencies, bodies and agencies for 2009 In December 2010, the Court published 40 special annual reports on EU agencies, bodies and bodies for the financial year 20092.
The Court concluded that the monitoring and control systems ensure the regularity of payments and that the Court recommended that some aspects of EDF financial management be improved, such as the cost effectiveness of expenditure controls, the control of the annual audit of completed projects and the control of the use and monitoring of budget support.
12 Special reports adopted in 2010 When selecting and designing its tasks for profitability and compliance audits, the Court is always concerned with achieving the greatest possible impact and the best possible use of the resources made available for these tasks.
In selecting the topics, the Court takes account of the following factors: • the risks of economic viability or compliance with legal standards in the area of revenue or expenditure concerned; • the level of revenue or expenditure concerned; • the time elapsed since a possible prior examination; • forthcoming developments within the relevant legal or operational framework; • the political and public interest.
In order to obtain the necessary audit evidence, the selected cost-effectiveness and compliance checks must be carefully planned and carried out. In addition, the Court gives the audited bodies, prior to the publication of the report, the opportunity to comment on its findings and the formulation of answers.
As a result, these examinations usually take more than a year.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS EN IMPROVING TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE ON TRANS-EUROPEAN RAIL AXES: HAVE EU RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS BEEN EFFECTIVE?
Special Report No 8 2010 ISSN XXXXX-XXXX
13 THE MAIN APPS OF A SELECTED ECONOMIC ACTIVITY OR COMPLIANCE A preliminary study to determine the feasibility of the test with detailed details.
Detailed planning with definition of objectives and scope, as well as the approach to be used and the methods to be used.
Analysis of the findings and confirmation of the facts by the body under examination.
Preparation of the draft special report.
Contradictory procedure with the audited EU institution.
3 The figures reflect recent changes to the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework and current prices (source: European Commission).
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of the ‘Design Studies' and ‘New Infrastructure Development' support measures in the Sixth Research Framework Programme (Special Report No 2/2010) – In the light of ‘Design Studies', feasibility aspects will be examined in potential future research institutions, and the ‘New Infrastructure Development' action aims to support the development of new or improved existing infrastructures.
In the course of the audit, the Court examined whether the two measures have effectively contributed to achieving the objectives of the 6th Framework Programme for Research Infrastructures for 2002-2006. • Impact assessments in the EU institutions: do they help in decision-making?
(Special Report No 3/2010) – Impact assessments are one of the cornerstones of better regulation policy for improving and simplifying EU legislative proposals. The assessment of whether the Commission's impact assessments have effectively supported decision-making in EU institutions and the comments of this report are also relevant for other budgetary areas.
• Are the Leonardo da Vinci programme's design and management of the mobility measures likely to produce effective results?
(Special Report No 4/2010) – The mobility projects of the Leonardo da Vinci programme enable organisations active in the field of vocational education and training to arrange for participants to study in another European country. The measures are part of the integrated lifelong learning programme. In the course of the study, an evaluation of the design, management and implementation of the measures by the Commission and the national agencies was carried out in order to assess whether the measures are likely to achieve their objectives. • Improving transport performance on the trans-European rail axes: Did EU investments in rail infrastructure have an effective effect? (Special Report No 4/2010) – The mobility projects of the Leonardo da Vinci programme make it possible for organisations active in the field of vocational training and training to make it possible for participants in another European country to make study visits.
(Special Report No 8/2010) (see box ‘Introduction of an economic audit'). • Is EU spending on structural measures in the water supply of households used in an optimal way?
(Special Report No 9/2010) – The Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund have allocated more than EUR 4 billion over the 2000-2006 programming period to support projects in the field of water supply infrastructure to households. e Court assessed whether these resources have been allocated effectively in order to address a number of needs, such as increasing water availability, increasing geographical coverage, improving the cost-effectiveness of water supply systems and improving the quality of services.
16 RECOVERY OF A RECOVERY TEST IMPROVEMENT OF TRANS-EUROPEAN RECOVERY ASSESSMENT: ARE EU INVESTMENT IN THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF THE IRON ASSISTANCE?  -SPECIAL REPORT NO. 8/2010-- The audit focused on EU co-financing of rail infrastructure, examining whether an effective contribution to the increase in the performance of the trans-European axes has been made.
In the light of the review of the TEN-T guidelines due to take place in 2011, the Court's report was presented at a particularly favourable time.The Court recommended that the Commission: • cooperate with the Member States and the railway authorities in order to identify the trans-European corridors in which there is a significant need and to develop knowledge and improve the analytical basis to the extent necessary; • strengthen the emphasis on reducing practical constraints on international rail transport; • promote and facilitate cooperation between Member States' railway sector bodies so that developments can be planned together and joint solutions to practical problems can be achieved.
17 "The test presented a number of challenges to the team," reports Gareth Roberts, head of the test team. "We had to get to know the conditions of European rail transport very quickly, and we had to see some examples of the success of fantastic modern railways, but also some network sections, which seemed to come from a different age.
We wanted to explore to what extent the European rail system gradually develops from a patchwork to a network.
Up to 10 examiners were involved in the work on the ground, as we had to cover many different languages."I really enjoyed the work on the test.
Since then, I have become something like a railway fan!, says Andrej Minarovič, the inspector responsible for the work in Germany and Austria.
At the end of the test, Fernando Pascual Gil, the team's nickname, "Mulwurf", was that he had spent a long time in railway tunnels in the Alps and the Pyrenees. The audit team visited eight Member States and examined the impact on trans-European rail transport of 21 railway projects co-financed by the European Union in the framework of trans-European transport networks and cohesion policy.
The team members traveled with freight trains over and through the Alps and visited large tunnel construction sites.
These visits were a valuable complement to the findings gained by the auditors from a review of reports, surveys of railway employees and the usual financial analyses.
18 Conservation and management of natural resources In the light of the EUR 413 billion allocated for the period 2007-2013, the EU has extensive powers and political responsibilities in the areas of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment. Three-quarters of the resources will be spent on agricultural markets and direct payments to farmers, financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), the ‘first pillar' of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
More than one fifth of the expenditure is dedicated to support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second ‘pillar' of the CAP.
Agriculture and rural development are subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Implementation of the Leader approach to rural development (Special Report No 5/2010) – Leader is a bottom-up approach to support rural development based on local partnerships. In the course of this review, it was assessed whether the Leader approach was implemented in such a way as to achieve additional benefits compared to the traditional top-down approach, while minimising the risks of a sound financial management. • Has the sugar market reform achieved its main objectives?
(Special Report No 6/2010) – In 2006, the EU carried out a profound reform of its sugar sector, aimed at ensuring the competitiveness of the EU sugar industry, stabilising markets and ensuring supply and ensuring a fair standard of living for the agricultural population.
The EU as a global partner The EU has three main objectives in the field of external relations in addition to enlargement: to achieve stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood (the EU and its neighbourhood policy), to actively support sustainable development at the international level (the EU as a partner for sustainable development), and to promote global political governance and to ensure strategic and civil security (the EU as a global player).
Expenditure is mainly managed directly by the Commission through its central services or delegations.
• Commission management of the system of veterinary checks on meat imports following the 2004 health legislation reform (Special Report No 14/2010) - Veterinary controls on imports are an integral part of the EU's food safety policy and help to reduce the risk of outbreaks of diseases and health crises, and are likely to lead to a high cost to the EU budget, to the EU's management of veterinary checks at border inspection posts following the reform of legislation on food hygiene, which came into force in 2006.
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Commission management of general budget support in ACP countries, Latin American and Asian countries (Special Report No 11/2010) – In general, many donors, including the European Commission, consider that general budget support is the most effective way of providing development aid.
The audit examined whether the Commission effectively managed its budget support programmes in the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and Latin America and Asia. 19
20 • EU development assistance for basic education in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia (Special Report 12/2010) – The EU and the international donor community committed themselves to ensuring primary education for all children, eradicating gender inequalities and improving the quality of education through the Education for All and the Millennium Development Goals initiative. The review examined whether EU development assistance has contributed to the achievement of these objectives in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia and whether the Commission has managed its interventions satisfactorily.
Revenue The European Union budget is primarily financed by own resources and other revenue. Traditional own resources – mainly customs – account for around 12% and VAT-based own resources for an additional 12% of total revenue. The majority of the EU own resources (70%) come from the own resources derived from the gross national income, which, as a residual income, ensure that the budget is always balanced. • Has the new European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument been successfully launched and is achieving results in the southern Caucasus (Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia)?
(Special Report No 13/2010) – The European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) provides a framework for the planning and implementation of assistance for partner countries and regions.
Since 2007, more than 311 million euros have been made available to three countries in the Southern Caucasus. In the course of the examination, the ENPI was examined whether it was successfully launched there and whether it was the result.
In 2010, the Court adopted a special report on • Simplified customs procedures (No 1/2010) – in the case of simplified customs procedures, authorised economic operators benefit from accelerated customs clearance and from a simplified system of payment of the duties, which are among the EU's revenue.
The audit assessed the effectiveness of the legal framework and the control approach of the Commission and of the Member States.Opinions delivered in 2010 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management in its opinions on proposals for new or amended instruments with financial implications.
21 22 REVIEW OF THE BUDGETARY REGULATION FROM THE VIEW OF THE COURT Opinion No 6/2010 concerns an important proposal by the Commission for a revision of the Financial Regulation, which lays down rules on how the EU's budget is collected, spent and accounted for.
Based on its statements in opinion 1/2010 (see above), the Court also points out the need to improve the quality of EU expenditure in certain areas of the EU budget of simpler and better legislation and other measures to support, promote and promote economic actions by the managers of the Commission, the other institutions and the Member States.
The ongoing contacts are maintained by liaison officers appointed by the individual SAIs.
The pilot project will be completed in 2011. 24 Network of the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries The Court actively participated in meetings of the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia)4, which took place parallel to the meetings of the Contact Committee.
4 As at February 2011. Other forms of cooperation The Court continued its active participation and participation in the improvement of international auditing principles and procedures through its membership in European and international organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the INTOSAI5 and its European regional group EUROSAI.
A delegation of the Court took part in the XXth INCOSAI Congress, which took place in South Africa from 22 to 27 November 2010.
Since 2004, when the Court became a full member of the INTOSAI, it has been actively involved in the subcommittees on the various types of examinations. In addition, the Court has contributed to the subcommittee "Promoting Best Practices and Quality Assurance through Voluntary Peer Reviews" and has supported the increased activities of the INTOSAI members in the field of strengthening their expertise.
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the Working Group on Accountability and the Audit of Disaster Relief.
An important aim of this work group is to develop guidelines in the area of accountability for disaster relief and to identify and disseminate best practices, focusing on activities aimed at stakeholders (multilateral institutions, relief organisations, governments, private auditors).The interim report of the working group was presented to the INTOSAI Congress in November 2010.
In 2010, the Court also participated in the INTOSAI Task Force on the Global Financial Crisis. In the context of the EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the Environmental Working Group and in the IT Working Group and is involved in the EUROSAI Training Committee.
The Court also took part in the working group set up at the 7th EUROSAI Congress in 2008 to set up a guide to best practices to achieve quality within a SAI. The Court is also one of the auditors of EUROSAI. 25
26 OUR MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGY FOR 2009  THE 2012 In recent years, after a self-assessment and a peer-review procedure (2008) on the framework conditions for its audit management, the Court has initiated an internal reform process.
A strategy for the 2009-2012 period6 was developed to address the identified weaknesses, with overall objectives for the period being: to maximise the overall impact of the audits; to improve efficiency by making the best use of resources.
Many of the priority measures foreseen in the strategy have already been completed and the other measures will be implemented in 2011 and 2012. Key achievements achieved in 2010 include: o the achievement of the target of submitting 12 to 15 annual reports on economic audits; o the development of new products – a document on risks and challenges for the new Commission (Opinion No 1/2010) and the establishment of a new system for reporting on the follow-up to the Court's recommendations from 2012; o the revision of the Court's rules of procedure for streamlining decision-making procedures through the introduction of chambers and strengthening the management structure; o the establishment of an overview of all performance indicators; o the development of the approach for the annual audit of the EU budget (declaration of reliability) on the basis of recommendations from an internal expert body supported by external experts; o the development of a set of posts from support services for audit services.
6 The audit strategy 2009-2012' is available on the Court's website.
27 INTRODUCTION OF INTRODUCTION OF INCOME IN THE NEW RULES OF PROCEDURE One of the main recommendations of the Court's reform process was that the Court should make use of the possibility provided for in Article 287(4) of the Treaty of allowing certain categories of reports and opinions of chambers to be adopted while maintaining the collegiality principle.
Following the Council's approval of the necessary amendments to the Court's Rules of Procedure, Chambers were set up on 1 June 2010 and are composed of Court members and adopt special reports, special annual reports and opinions on draft acts. Prior to this, all these reports and opinions were adopted by the whole College, and this is still the case with annual reports on the EU budget and the EDFs.
Although most of the Court's reports are now accepted by the Chambers, the Chambers have the option of transferring their documents to the Court for adoption.
All members may attend meetings of chambers to which they are not members without voting rights.
Members of the Court
28 MEASUREMENT DATA ON THE HOUSE IN 2010 Since 2008, the Court has gradually developed a set of key performance indicators (CPIs) to inform o the management of the progress made in the implementation of the 2009-2012 targets; o support the decision-making process; o provide performance-related information to the Court's audience.
Since for the first time a survey of all the indicators is available for 2010, this year serves as the reference year for future assessments of progress. The Court is very pleased with the results of its 2010 key performance indicators, in particular the quality and impact of its work.
More important, however, is the fact that the indicators clearly show the areas in which progress is needed and which problems need to be addressed in order to achieve a future performance increase.
29 Quality and impact of the Court's work The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of assessments by the addressees and on the basis of expert reviews and follow-up of its recommendations.
Assessment by addressees By means of a survey, the Court asked the main addressees of its reports (the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgets of the Council) and of the main audited bodies (mainly European Commission staff) to assess the quality and impact of the annual reports published in 2009 (the general budget and the EDF) and special reports.
The assessment should be based on a five-stage scale (1 – very bad, 2 – bad, 3 – appropriate, 4 – good, 5 – very good).
2010 Objective Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's reports by a principal addressee 4.2 ≥4 Evaluation of the quality and impact of the Court's audit work by the audited body The result shows that the main addressees of the Court's reports find these on average for "good".
The Court strives to maintain or improve this level of performance.
Experts' reviews Two external bodies have reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports published in 2009 and 2010 and have assessed eight special reports and the annual report on the general budget and on the EDFs for both years and assessed the quality of different aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale of "significantly impaired" (1) to "qualitatively high-quality" (4).
2010 target 3.0 ≥ 3 3.7 ≥4 External experts review of the Court's content and presentation The outcome shows that the reviewers consider the Court's reports to be "satisfactory".
The reviews have provided valuable insights and the resulting recommendations will be used to improve the quality of future reports.
30 Follow-up of recommendations The Court uses its audit experience primarily in the form of recommendations in order to contribute to the improvement of financial management. In order to make changes, the Court's recommendations must first be accepted by the audited bodies and subsequently implemented.The indicator is based on the recommendations published in 2009, i.e. the latest available annual and special reports.
2010 target 90 % ≥ 90 % Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audited body The Court strives to maintain or even improve this high level of acceptance of its recommendations.
In 2010, the Court established a system for monitoring the implementation of the recommendations by the audited bodies.
In the coming years, this system will serve as a basis for a further indicator of the extent of the practical implementation of recommendations and will lead to improvements.
It will also provide the Court with valuable insights to improve the quality of its recommendations and thus to increase their acceptance by the audited bodies.
31 Efficiency and effectiveness of resource use The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources according to its ability to submit reports and audit findings on time, to meet its financial management obligations, and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff. Timeliness of reports The Court strives to accept all planned reports within the time limits set.
The publication of the annual reports and of the specific annual reports shall be subject to the deadlines laid down in legislation.
In the case of special reports where the publication date is not specified in the legislation, the date of the planned adoption shall be deemed to be the date.
2010 target Number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned 90% 100% Percentage of reports adopted on time 80% 100% Overall, the Court missed the target in 2010.
The Court adopted fewer reports in 2010 than planned, with performance comparable to the previous year (91% in 2009), and, while the proportion of reports adopted on time increased in 2010 (80% compared with 67% in 2009), further improvement is needed.
While all annual reports and all special annual reports were adopted and published on schedule except for one, this was only the case with three special reports.
Six special reports delayed adoption until 2011.
The Court strives to achieve the targets by introducing further measures to improve the governance of the procedures of special reports by the end of 2012.
2010 Target percentage of audit notices prepared on time 54% 80% by 2012 The performance achieved in 2010 is not yet at the required level, but significant progress has been made over the past two years in achieving the target (43% in 2009 and 27% in 2008).
The Court will continue its efforts to achieve the target. External assessment of the financial management The Court will seek to obtain a full audit opinion on the annual financial statements and the use of resources from its independent auditor and discharge from the European Parliament on the basis of a favourable recommendation from the Council.
2010 target Yes Yes Unlimited audit opinion of the independent auditor and discharge
Professional Training In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide the auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training.
2010 target Average number of training days per person 5.7 days ≥ 5 days 33 In 2010, the required level of performance was reached, which means an improvement over 2009 (average of 4 days).
Staff satisfaction 86 % of the Court's employees were generally satisfied with their work in an internal employee satisfaction survey conducted in 2009, with a total employee satisfaction level of 2.8 on a scale of 1 to 4. Each of the figures above 2.5 indicates general satisfaction. The Court strives to maintain or improve this result when a similar survey is conducted at the end of 2012.
34 AUDIT ASSISTANCE The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by the Court's specialised services, providing the logistical, technical and technical know-how that allows the Court to, o to recruit, retain and motivate its staff and develop its professional skills; o to disseminate the audit results in all the official languages of the EU; o to make the best use of information technologies; o to manage its budget and maintain its infrastructure; o to carry out audit trips to all countries where EU funds are spent.
Staff Staff allocation The Court's most important capital is its staff. At 31 December 2010, the Court's staff was 889 (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 557 are in audit chambers (including 123 staff in members' cabinets), 151 in the Translation Directorate, 157 in administrative support services and 24 in the President's services. In 2010, in view of the objective of the best possible use of resources, possible efficiency improvements in all activities were explored and implemented through the simplification of procedures and the rationalisation of services.
If possible, job vacancies released outside the audit area were transferred to the audit service, thus increasing the number of vacancies used for audit tasks by 6 %. This process will continue in 2011.
Breakdown of Court posts at 31 December 2008 2009 2010 Examination chambers 501 525 557 Translation 163 163 151 Support 173 171 157 Presidential services 20 21 24 Total 857 880 889
35 men women The following graphs show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2010; as with the other EU institutions, the Court operates an equal opportunity policy within the framework of its human resources policy and recruitments.
20 of the 67 directors and heads of units (30%) are women, which represents a steady increase over previous years.
However, most of them are in the Directorate of Translation and Administrative Services.
2001 2010 54% 46% 50% 50%
36 Assistants – Secretaries (Function Group AST) Auditors – Administrators (Function Group AD) Men Women 2009 2010 2009 2010 Age profile 2009 2010 Men Women 27% 73% 63% 33% Directors and Head of Unit 69% 62% 38% Men Women The proportion of women at AD level continues to rise due to new recruitments.
According to the latest wave of recruitment, 45 % of the employees in grades AD5 to AD8 are women.
74% 26% 70% 30% The age profile of the staff in active employment on 31 December 2010 shows that 62% of the Court's staff are 44 years of age or younger. age 20-24 0% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 24 of the 67 Directors and Head of Unit are 55 years of age or older.
4% 18% 20% 20% 15% 12% 7% 4%
37 Continuing vocational training The training of the examiner requires continuous training in order to keep pace with new developments and to acquire new skills.
In 2010, efforts were made to implement the staff redeployment plan adopted by the Secretary-General to move posts and staff from the translation service to the audit service in 2011. Based on the 2008-2011 plan for training and the training pathways adopted in 2009, the training department made improvements to the content of the training in 2010 and developed new training courses in line with the priorities adopted by the Court.
In addition, the Court's Translation Directorate provided valuable linguistic support to examiners on missions and the subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
In addition, INTOSAI's Translation Directorate supported working groups and met other specific needs related to the Court's audit activities.
Work on the Artemis project to improve the functions of this important IT application for translators continued in 2010. In addition, the Directorate „Translation" of the Court actively participated in interinstitutional and international specialised bodies.
38 Information Technology Information Technology (IT) plays a key role in implementing the overarching objectives of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy. The following developments were noted in 2010: • the establishment of a cooperation platform in line with the strategic IT plan 2010-2012 in support of knowledge exchange in particular in the audit area; • the continuation of efforts to optimise and simplify internal procedures through electronic workflows to increase efficiency and effectiveness; the management and infrastructure task of the Financial and Support Services Directorate (Finance and Support Services) is to provide the Court's auditors with support in an efficient, efficient and timely manner and to ensure that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all of the Court's activities.
In 2010, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and effectiveness in order to release resources to the audit service. • Use of smart phones and laptop com-puters to enable the efficient execution of audit work at any location and at any time, including in the context of the Court's contingency plan.
Due to an agreement reached at the end of 2008 with the budgetary authority to finance the K3 building, the project manager had to prepare tenders for the construction and ancillary services and to publish them in 2010.
Most of the contracts for this project were awarded during the year. The time and budget of the construction project is being respected. Completion is scheduled for the end of 2012.
39 Audit visits During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to the Member States and other recipients of EU funds, as well as to the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations.
TEST TEST IN 2010 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Visits are usually made by central and local authorities involved in granting, managing and disbursing EU funds, as well as by the respective final beneficiaries.
In the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member State visited, providing useful logistical and practical support.
52 38 32 30 26 23 15141312111010 9 7 65555433321221111111111111 France Germany United Kingdom Italy Spain Netherlands Sweden Portugal Greece Denmark Luxembourg Hungary Poland Ireland Austria Romania Belgium Slovenia Slovakia Czech Republic Lithuania Bulgaria Cyprus Finland Latvia Estonia Malta Croatia Ethiopia Mali Rwanda Bangladesh Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Burkina Faso Dominican Republic Ghana Israel UNMIK Malawi Nepal Norway South Africa Sudan Switzerland Uganda Ukraine USA (UN)
40 FINANCIAL INFORMATION The European Court of Auditors is financed by the European Union's general budget, accounting for about 0.1% of the EU's total expenditure and less than 2% of the total administrative expenditure.
Implementation of the 2010 budget Title 1: Members and staff of the institution Final appropriations Commitments BUDGET YEAR 2010 Use of appropriations as %(commitments/allocated appropriations) Payments (in EUR 1 000) 10 – Members of the institution 13 364 12 980 98 % 12 687 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 94 245 87 459 93 % 87 104 14 – Other staff and external services 4 604 3 590 78 % 3 567 162 – Missions 3 450 3 231 94 % 2 775 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure on Members and staff of the institution 2 861 1 887 66 % 1 435 Title 1 Total 118 524 109 147 92 % 107 568 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous expenditure 20 – Buildings 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications 18 561 18 390 99% 7 656 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 6 365 6 365 100 % 4 035 212, 214, 216 – Mobile and ancillary costs 834 771 92 % 831 23 – Running expenditure 443 747 943
41 In 2010, the overall implementation rate for the budget available was 93 %.
42 2011 budget The 2011 budget budget was reduced by 2.44% compared with 2010, mainly due to reduced funding for the new courtyard building (K3). The total construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at EUR 79 million, to be financed in five consecutive years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011, and EUR 3 million each in 2012 and 2013.
BUDGET 2011 2010 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution 12 930 13 364 (in EUR 1 000) 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 95 957 3 825 3 652 2 485 6 500 816 422 893 2 240 25 482 144 331 94 246 4 603 3 450 2 861 6 365 877 404 868 2 389 29 421 147 945 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous expenditure Title 1 Total 118 849 118 524 20 – Buildings 14 611 118 518 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 23 – Current expenditure for the operation of services 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications Court of Auditors Total Title 2 Total
The Court's Internal Audit Service is to assist the Court in the implementation of its objectives by means of a systematic, methodological evaluation of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures. Furthermore, the Court's Internal Audit Service, on the basis of assessments on the effectiveness of the Court's internal control systems, makes proposals to increase the Court's efficiency.
In 2010, the "Internal Audit" department of the Court focused its work on the follow-up of its recommendations from previous years, the review of the Court's system of ex-ante reviews, the review of the Court's implementation of the Court's SOS II/SAP system, and the conformity of the video surveillance system with data protection rules and requirements.
In 2009, the "Internal Audit" department of the Court was audited and certified in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The auditor's audit report – PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL – on the Court of Auditors' annual accounts for the financial year 2009 was published in October 20107.
OJ C 279 of 15.10.2010.
44 AUDIT CLASSIFICATIONS OF THE INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION AUDITOR DEPENDENT OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2009 TO THE ANNUAL FINANCE: "We believe that the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2009, as well as the financial situation and cash flows for the year ending that reference date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down implementing provisions for the above Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors, as well as with those of the Court of Auditors. for those purposes, and in the context of the accounts of the Court, in our work as described in this report, we have not encountered the circumstances as to which we would have to conclude that in all of the essential matters, and in the light of the above criteria, a) the appropriations allocated to the Court were not used for the purposes in question, and b) the control procedures which have been established do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations and regulations.
45 DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF DECLARATION OF THE REFERRED REFERRED TO IN THIS REFERRED TO IN THIS DECLARATION THE undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorised authorising officer, that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate and, in his capacity as authorising officer, confirms with reasonable certainty that • the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes provided and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that • the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance as to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the reasonable handling of fraud or suspicions of fraud. This reasonable assurance is based on the undersigned's assessment and the information available to him, such as the results of the ex-post controls, the internal auditor's reports and the audit reports on previous financial years.
The examination chambers I to IV cover various revenue and expenditure areas, while the fifth, the CEAD chamber, is responsible for horizontal matters. The chambers are supported by examination directions.
Each member shall be responsible for specific tasks, primarily in the field of examination, and the members shall submit proposals for examination and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible, to the respective Chamber and to the Court.
The members are supported by their cabinet staff and the auditing team appointed for the examination task.
ISSN 1684-0666 2011 THE ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS
Europe Direct is a service to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Freephone number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Certain mobile telephone operators do not allow access to 00 800 numbers or these calls may be billed.
A great deal of additional information on the European Union is available on the Internet. It can be accessed through the Europa server (http://europa.eu).
Cataloguing data can be found at the end of the publication.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2012 ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693 © European Union, 2012 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Belgium PRINTED ON ELEMENTARY WHITE CHLORINE-FREE PAPER (ECF)
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2011
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS DIRECTORY VALUES The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances under the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, he contributes to the improvement of EU financial management and, at the same time, acts as the independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors of integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism, quality and impact, and providing valuable support to its audience to improve EU financial management.
INDUSTRIALITY, INTEGRATION AND INDUSTRIALITY PROFESSIONALITY VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and staff.
impartiality which, while taking into account the positions of the bodies concerned, rejects any form of interference by instructions or external pressure.
To maintain a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
contributing to the further development of public financial control at EU and global level.
Preparation of relevant, timely, high-quality reports, based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the concerns of its addressees and containing important and forward-looking statements.
Involve in the effective improvement of EU management and contribute to strengthening accountability for the management of EU financial resources.
Promote team spirit through effective communication.
Increasing efficiency in all aspects of his work.
3 CONTENTS Page 4 PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT 7 2011 AT A GLANCE 9 OUR ACTIVITIES 9 Audit reports and opinions 23 Cooperation with other SAIs 28 Other activities 31 OUR MANAGEMENT 31 Implementation of the 2009-2012 strategy 33 Measurement of the Court's performance in 2011 37 Support for audit activities 43 Financial information 46 Audit and accountability
4 PRESIDENCY OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome to the annual activity report 2011 of the European Court of Auditors.
In 2011, the economic and financial crisis saw significant developments in the EU's economic governance, which have a significant impact on the future use of public funding.
Against this background, the Court published a position paper in May highlighting the impact on accountability, transparency and public financial control of the measures taken in response to the financial and economic crisis.
Later that year, the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCBs) of the EU Member States and of the European Court of Auditors called on EU decision-makers to ensure that the principles of accountability, transparency and public financial control are properly respected whenever public funding is involved.
In particular, the euro area SAIs called for appropriate arrangements for public external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
This resulted in a decision to set up an Audit Committee for the Stability Mechanism to which a member proposed by the Court will be a member.
In 2011, the results of our key performance indicators are also encouraging, particularly as regards the follow-up of the recommendations accepted by our audited bodies, as well as the evaluation of our audit work by the addressees and external experts.
We were able to increase our output in terms of the number of audit reports and opinions adopted in 2011, but we were unable to achieve the ambitious targets we set ourselves in terms of the punctuality of reporting.
Our annual reports now contained more detailed information and a new chapter on performance aspects. We also produced 42 special annual reports and 16 special reports along with seven opinions and a position paper.
The scope of our institution's audit powers on Union revenue and expenditure, in particular on VAT own resources in the Member States, was confirmed by the European Court of Justice in November 2011.
From 2012 onwards, we will be able to report on to what extent our recommendations will be done in practice.
We will also conduct our methods of economic assessment under a peer review process with the aim of continuing to improve the process of producing our special reports.
In 2011, we published ethical guidelines to further strengthen the Court's audit management framework and revised Court's audit strategies and audit guidelines to streamline the audit process and the reporting process.
We will also launch a new employee satisfaction survey in 2012.
With a view to the future, we will complete the preparation of our strategy for the period 2013-2017 in 2012.
Some of the most important challenges have already been identified: the EU's regulatory framework will continue to develop, and we must continue to insist on proper compliance with the principles of accountability, transparency and public financial control.
The need for a high quality and timely guarantee for the use of EU funding is constantly increasing and we need to further develop our audits and reports accordingly.
Since the EU is undergoing a continuous process of change, we will also endeavour to make the best possible use of our audit experience to support policy-makers in improving financial management.
Strengthening the EU's financial accountability is a goal that we have in common with other actors and we will try to pool our efforts by entering into strategic partnerships.
Finally, like the other EU institutions and bodies, we need to be prepared to achieve more with less to improve the efficiency of our organisation.
Meeting these challenges will depend to a significant extent on the efforts of all the Court's staff.
The development of the excellence of our employees – a fundamental value of our institution – is and remains an important concern for us.
With regard to the professionalism, commitment and results achieved by our employees in the past, I am confident that the Court will be able to achieve these future goals.
Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President 5
• Annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2010 on the financial year 2010 with more detailed information o 42 special annual reports on the various agencies, decentralised bodies and other agencies of the European Union for the financial year 2010 o 16 special reports on certain budget areas or management issues o 7 opinions with contributions to budget reform, such as on the modernisation of public procurement policies and on the Commission legislative proposal on the rules on cohesion expenditure after 2013 o Position paper on the consequences of the current financial and economic crisis for public accountability and financial control within the EU and on the role of the Court of OUR MANAGEMENT o, further encouraged by the results of our key performance indicators, in particular on the quality and impact of our work o adoption of ethical guidelines for further strengthening the audit management framework o revision of audit strategies and audit guidelines of the Court, with the aim of strengthening the audit process and reporting process o implementation of administrative staff in the audit area, which contributed to further strengthening the audit staff's in the Court's management framework with the aim of strengthening of the management work of the Court building in the building as a result of a more substantial 12 of the work in the construction work,
Number of reports and opinions 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised bodies 29 29 37 40 42 Special reports 9 12 18 14 16 Opinions and other reports 9 5 1 6 8 The full version of each report and opinion is available on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in 22 EU official languages.
This led to the publication of the 2010 Annual Report, including the seventeenth Statement of Assurance (DAS), on 10 November 2011.
The 2010 Annual Report introduced some changes to improve clarity and information.
These include the reshaping of the themes (and the related annual chapters) among which the Court groups expenditure, the publication of estimated error rates by policy area (see below), increased attention to recommendations to improve financial management, and a new chapter on performance aspects.
For the first time, the Court published estimated error rates for both the EU budget as a whole and for individual themes.
The error rates are calculated by extrapolating the quantifiable errors detected in the samples of operations examined.
The Court compares the estimated error rate with a materiality threshold of 2 % to determine whether the error is material, with further proof.
Error rates are not a measure of fraud, but reflect the Court's estimate of the violation of the rules governing expenditure.
This includes non-compliance with public procurement rules, non-eligible or miscalculated costs claimed by EU co-financed projects, or excessive area data provided by farmers.
The key statements of the 2010 annual report were as follows: o The annual accounts for the financial year 2010 constitute the financial situation of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year as a whole.
On the other hand, the payments underlying this annual accounts are considerably affected by errors, with the estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole being 3.7%.
The control systems were partly effective to ensure the regularity of payments as a whole. o The Court's estimate of the error rate of cohesion, energy and transport expenditure (the EU's most error-hit expenditure area) was 7.7% higher than in 2009. o In the other EU expenditure areas, the error rate remained relatively stable.
In the field of agriculture and natural resources, the estimated error rate was 2.3% and was thus above the materiality threshold.
However, direct payments to farmers did not show significant errors. o The share of advance payments – pre-financing – within the EU budget has increased significantly.
The accounting rules and supervisory arrangements have not been adjusted accordingly. o When planning EU spending programmes, the Commission and the Member States should pay greater attention to defining SMART objectives, i.e. concrete, measurable, achievable, appropriate, and a date, but also to identifying and mitigating potential risks during the implementation.
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR 2010 In its Annual Report on the European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2010 (published on 10 November 2011), the Court concluded that the 2010 financial statements of the EDFs represent the financial position of the EDFs and the results of its operations and cash flows in accordance with the financial rules in all material respects.
EDF revenue is not subject to substantial errors.
EDF commitments were lawful and lawful, regardless of the non-quantifiable errors detected in the procurement sector.
However, the EDF payments for projects were significantly affected by errors, with an estimated error rate of 3.4%.
The errors identified concerned non-compliance with eligibility requirements.
The Court assessed that the control systems established by the EDF only partially guarantee the regularity of the payments as a whole.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORTS ON AGENCIES, DECENTRAL BODIES AND OTHER EU INSTITUTIONS FOR 2010 In December 2011, the Court published special annual reports on the 2010 financial year for all 42 agencies, decentralised bodies (e.g. Joint Undertakings) and other EU bodies (in particular, the efficiency of the management of the European Central Bank).
The Court gave an unqualified opinion on all audited entities, with the exception of the European GNSS Agency, on the grounds that certain assets were not included in the accounts, and the ENIAC Joint Undertaking, on the grounds that the accounts were not included in the accounts.
The EU agencies and decentralised bodies have been set up by the EU legislator to carry out specific tasks.
Each Agency shall have a mandate, a Management Board, a Director, staff and a budget.
The agencies are active in a number of areas, such as security, health, research, finance, migration and travel.
11 President Caldeira at the presentation of the 2010 Annual Report at the plenary session of the European Parliament
12 SPECIAL REPORTS ADOPTED IN 2011 In addition to its annual reports, the Court shall, during the year, publish special reports containing the results of the Court's economic and compliance audits on specific budgetary areas or management issues of its choice.
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court is anxious to achieve maximum impact and to make the best use of its resources.
In selecting the subjects, the Court shall take into account the following factors: i) the risks to the economy or to compliance with legal standards in the area of revenue or expenditure concerned; ii) the level of revenue or expenditure concerned; ii) the time elapsed since any prior examination; ii) future developments within the relevant legal framework; ii) the political and public interest.
In 2011, the Court adopted 16 special reports on a number of topics, which represents an increase on the 14 special reports adopted in 2010.
These special reports are presented below in a concise form under the relevant headings of the financial framework – the EU's multiannual budget.
The special reports are available in 22 EU languages on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in full or available from the EU Bookshop.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH 13 Sustainable growth focuses on growth and jobs and focuses on two issues: competitiveness includes the promotion of research and technological development, the networking of Europe, education and training, promotion of competitiveness in a fully integrated internal market, the social agenda and the dismantling of nuclear installations.
EU expenditure on growth and employment in 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 89.4 billion, i.e. 9.2% of the total funding, of which nearly two thirds is in research and development. Cohesion for growth and employment is mainly in the form of cohesion policy, which is implemented in the form of European Social Fund, Cohesion Fund and European Regional Development Fund.
The appropriations shall be allocated by shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
The EU budget for cohesion for the period 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 348.4 billion (35.7% of the total EU budget).
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: the effectiveness of the SME Guarantee Facility (Special Report No 4/2011) in the light of its design and planning, and the management of its related operations and the achievement of its objectives.
The SME Guarantee Facility (SMEG Facility) is a financial instrument managed on behalf of the European Commission by the European Investment Fund. It provides financial intermediaries with guarantees or guarantees for loans made to SMEs by financial institutions, thereby increasing the availability of debt finance. o Effectiveness of the tourism projects cofinanced by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (Special Report No. 6/2011) in terms of expected results, sustainability, European added value and project design.
The audit was based on a broad-based survey of projects in new Member States and 26 regions.
During the period 2000-2006, the ERDF provided EUR 4.6 billion of EU funds for real investment in tourism projects, selected and managed by managing authorities in the Member States.
14 o The effectiveness of eGovernment projects funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (Special Report No 9/2011) with a focus on the 2000-2006 programming period and the four Member States of Spain, France, Italy and Poland.
The audit evaluated whether the co-financed projects were selected on the basis of the needs identified, whether they were carried out as planned, and whether they were appropriate and sustainable.
This EUR 6.7 billion ERDF resources for the information society should be used to develop new safe technologies, to develop infrastructure and to link regions through broadband. o the effectiveness of the Commission's management of State aid control (Special Report No 15/2011).
The examination has examined whether the procedures and systems ensure that the Commission handles all relevant aid cases, the cases are dealt with effectively and within the deadlines laid down, and the Commission is able to monitor the impact of its State aid control.
It is up to the Commission to ensure that State aid granted by the Member States is compatible with the internal market of the European Union.
Member States must only notify aid measures to the Commission and obtain the Commission's approval before granting State aid. o Implement EU financial support for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia (Special Report No 16/2011) to assess whether the measures of the nuclear decommissioning programmes have been adequately designed, whether they have been carried out as planned, and whether the structures for accountability and administration have been designed to ensure the effective use of EU funds.
Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia committed themselves to early shutdown and subsequent decommissioning of eight non-refitable nuclear reactors during their EU accession negotiations.
In view of the exceptional burden, the EU provided €2.9 billion of support for the three country programmes for the period 1999-2013.
The EU has a high political responsibility in the fields of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 413.1 billion, i.e. 42.3% of the total budget.
Three quarters of the expenditure relates to direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) – the ‘first pillar' of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
More than one fifth of the expenditure is allocated to EU support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second "pillar of the CAP".
Agriculture and rural development are subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
The Court adopted the following special reports in this area in 2011: o Single payment scheme under the Common Agricultural Policy (Special Report No 5/2011) – See box: ‘Initiating an economic impact assessment' o How good is the design and management of the agri-environmental measures supported? (Special Report No 7/2011).
This report assesses whether agri-environment policy is designed and accompanied in such a way as to provide a significant environmental benefit, whether farmers are adequately supported by adequate guidance and adequate amounts of aid, and whether specific environmental needs are taken into account in the management of agri-environment policy.
The aim of agri-environmental policy is to meet the increasing social demand for environmental services by encouraging farmers to introduce or maintain production processes compatible with the protection and improvement of the environment.
This area is subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States. o Recovery of irregular payments under the common agricultural policy (Special Report No 8/2011) to assess the effectiveness of the recovery schemes established and operated by the Member States.
The audit examined whether the Member States had been able to properly collect and process claims, whether the measures taken by the Member States to recover identified unlawful payments, whether the Member States had acted properly in the Member States' unremitting claims and whether the Commission's supervision and supervision had been effective.
The European Union spends some EUR 55 billion per year on agriculture and rural development, and some of the funds are wrongly paid out on the basis of illegal or incorrect applications. 15
16 o The effectiveness of the "school milk" and "school fruit" programmes (Special Report No 10/2011) to assess whether EU aid has a direct impact on the beneficiaries' consumption and whether the programmes are suitable for implementing the educational impact and for impacting future eating habits.
These EU programmes aim to encourage children to eat healthy food through the consumption of milk products and fruit and vegetables and to contribute to the improvement of the market conditions for these products.
The EU is currently providing an annual budget of EUR 180 million for these two programmes. o Making it possible to design and manage the geographical indications scheme that it is effective? (Special Report No 11/2011).
The audit assessed the reliability of the control system, the attractiveness of the system for producers and the consumer awareness of the system.
The objective of the EU scheme for geographical indications is to protect the names of products for which there is a link between their characteristics and the geographical area from which they originate.
The scheme has economic potential for farmers and food producers and can have a positive impact on the rural economy in the regions of the EU. o The effectiveness of EU measures to adapt fishing fleet fishing capacity to existing fishing opportunities (Special Report No 12/2011).
The audit examined whether there was a clear framework for the reduction of fleet capacity and whether the specific measures were and were implemented.
The investigation took place at the Commission and in Denmark, Spain, France, Italy, Poland, Portugal and the United Kingdom.
The aim of the EU's common fisheries policy is to promote sustainable fishing by achieving a balance between fisheries and the fishing fleet in order to avoid overfishing.
For many years, the overcapacity of the fishing fleet has been a problem, jeopardising both the sustainability of fish stocks and the long-term viability of the fisheries sector.
The European Fisheries Fund will provide EUR 4.3 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period.
17 APPROVAL OF AN ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT SPECIAL REPORT No 5/2011 OPERATING PREMIUM REGULATION: REPORTING ASSESSMENTS ASSESSMENT OF A BETTER FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT This audit covered the sound financial management of the payments under the single payment scheme, which is currently being applied in 17 of the 27 EU Member States.
Expenditure related to this scheme amounted to around 28.8 billion euros in 2009.
The introduction of the single payment scheme was a key element of the 2003 reform of the EU's common agricultural policy.
The aim of this scheme was to encourage farmers to respond better to market demand and to provide income support.
In the course of the reform, the link between support and production was dissolved ("decoupling").
Instead, farmers must have eligible agricultural land and ‘payment entitlements'.
From 2006 onwards, the Court carried out a series of audits of the procedures set up by the Commission and the Member States to ensure the accuracy of payment entitlements and the correctness of payments to farmers.
These audits covered all 17 Member States applying the scheme and the results of these audits were included in the 2006 and 2007 annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget.
The Court decided to carry out, on the basis of these results, an economic audit focusing on the following aspects: (i) the beneficiaries of the scheme, access to single payments and the definition of eligible areas; (ii) the contribution of the scheme to the objectives of income support to farmers and to the preservation of agricultural land in good agricultural and environmental conditions; (iii) the specific consequences of the application of the different models to implement the scheme.
Test visits were held in 2009 and 2010 at the Commission, as well as in France, Italy and the United Kingdom.
The conclusion of the resulting Special Report No 5/2011 was that the single payment scheme contributed to the achievement of the two main objectives of the common agricultural policy: to encourage farmers to respond better to market demand and to support the income of the agricultural sector as a whole.
However, in general terms, the implementation of the scheme has led to a number of questionable features concerning the definition of the beneficiaries of this policy, the nature of the eligible parcels and activities, the environmental impact of the scheme, the distribution of aid from Member State to Member State and within Member States and the specific impact of the historical and regional model.
18 The Court recommends in the report that it is better for the single payment to be paid to active farmers and that non-agricultural parcels and activities that do not help to increase agricultural productivity or the active preservation of the ecological value of the land be excluded from the support.
In addition, the Court recommends that the level of the single payment should take into account the costs of environmental and other external effects, and that a more balanced distribution of the aid among farmers should be sought.
The calculation of the single payment should be based on the current management conditions.
The examination was carried out by a multidisciplinary team of eight examiners of Chamber I. The examination work provided not only further information regarding the concept of the decoupled single payment but also regarding the impact of the conversion process on the current scheme from the previous coupled support scheme.
According to team leader Sven Kölling, the examination of the various models and variants existing under the single payment scheme, together with the coexistence of national and regional administrative strategies and their impact on the profitability and effectiveness of the premium, was a particular challenge.
Test visits to final beneficiaries and on-the-spot checks at the premises proved to be indispensable to obtain the verification evidence to support the findings and conclusions.
Many of the Court's recommendations were reflected in the Commission's proposals for reform of the common agricultural policy after 2013 (at the time of the preparation of this report in the discussion), including the definition of an "active farmer" and of minimum activities on certain areas, the distribution of premium payments among beneficiaries, the reduction in the number of implementation models for the single payment scheme, and the better consideration of environmental external effects in the calculation of single payments.
Tester team from left to right: (first row) Heike Walz, Court Member Michel Cretin, Aurelia Petliza, (second row) Pietro Puricella, Dirk Pauwels, Sven Kölling, Sylvain Lehnhard
EU AS A GLOBAL PARTNER 19 The EU's external relations activities focus on enlargement, the achievement of stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood, active support for sustainable development at international level, and the promotion of global political governance and security in its strategy and in its neighbourhood.
The EU has allocated EUR 55,9 billion, i.e. 5,7 % of its planned total expenditure, to these objectives, for the period 2007-2013.
Expenditure is mainly managed directly by the Commission through its central services or delegations.
Some support measures are also managed together with international organisations.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Has the deconcentration of the management of external aid from the Commission's central departments to its delegations led to a better provision of aid?
(Special Report No 1/2011).
The audit covered the examination of administrative modalities and their impact on the speedier delivery and better quality of assistance and the creation of stable financial procedures.
The EU is the world's largest donor of development assistance, with a large part of this assistance (EUR 8.4 billion in 2009) being managed by the Commission within the framework of its administrative system, with powers being delegated to the Commission's external offices in the partner countries from 2002 onwards. o Economic efficiency and effectiveness of EU contributions (Special Report No. 3/2011) by United Nations agencies in conflict-affected countries, with a focus on projects in Afghanistan, Iraq and Sudan in the period 2006-2008.
EuropeAid provided around 4 billion euros through UN organisations in the period 2005-2009.
The EU may provide funds as the sole donor or as a joint donor, as contributions to trust funds, without providing funds for specific activities or objectives, or as a contribution to the general budget of a UN organisation. o Effectiveness of EU assistance in improving Croatia's ability to manage post-accession funding (Special Report No 14/2011) to assess the Commission's planning of assistance and whether the intended results of projects financed by EU funds have been achieved.
The objective of the EU pre-accession assistance is to assist the candidate countries in building up their administrative capacity to prepare them for the management of the larger EU aid to which they will be entitled as Member States.
EU pre-accession assistance to Croatia has been worth EUR 150 million annually since 2007.
The budget of the European Union is primarily financed from own resources and other revenue.
Traditional own resources – mainly customs duties – represent around 12% of total revenue and the VAT own resources represent an additional 12% of total revenue.
The bulk of the EU's own resources (70%) comes from the own resources derived from gross national income, which ensure that the budget is always balanced.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Management of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) (Special Report No 2/2011) to assess the measures taken to implement the recommendations of the previous Special Report No 1/2005 of the Court on the subject.
The starting point for the audit was whether OLAF has now shifted the focus of its activities to its investigative role and whether the investigations of OLAF are more effective, how to demonstrate the effectiveness of its investigative activities and whether the role of the Supervisory Committee has been clarified.
OLAF's role is to combat fraud and other illegal activities to the detriment of the EU budget.
The Office is affiliated to the Commission, but has full independence in the conduct of its investigations and employs around 500 staff, the annual expenditure being around EUR 50 million.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: o Is the Court able to prevent and detect VAT evasion through the control of customs procedure 42? (Special Report No 13/2011) In the course of this audit, the Court examined whether a sound legal framework exists to combat VAT evasion under customs procedure 42.
Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Austria, Slovenia and Sweden tested.
Customs procedure 42 is a mechanism used by an EU importer to obtain a VAT exemption.
The procedure shall apply when goods imported from outside the EU into one Member State are transported to another Member State.
In such cases, VAT shall be due in the Member State of destination.
OPINIONS AND POSITIONS POSITIONED IN 2011 The Court's opinions on proposals for new or amended acts with financial implications also contribute to improving EU financial management.
These opinions will be delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and will be used by the legislative authorities – the European Parliament and the Council – in their work.
The Court may also issue position papers on other issues on its own initiative.
In 2011, the Court adopted seven opinions: o 1/2011: Proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 on the financial regulation applicable to the 10th European Development Fund on the European External Action Service o 2/2011: Financial Regulation of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking o 3/2011: Proposal for a Regulation amending the Financial Regulation of the European Schools o 4/2011: Commission Green Paper on the modernisation of European public procurement policy o 5/2011: Proposal for a Council Regulation (Euratom) on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the Framework Programme of the European Atomic Energy Community and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013) o 6/2011: Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 on investigations carried out by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999.
The contribution from the EU budget to achieving the Europe 2020 objectives is therefore highly dependent on the economical, efficient and effective use of these funds.
This will also affect the credibility and legitimacy of EU action.
The EU continues to face the challenge of achieving good quality results through a system of prior allocation of funds to the Member States and of the use of these funds as an implicit objective.
The effective monitoring and accountability of the Commission would help Member States to use the funds successfully.
The opinions are available in full on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in all the official languages of the EU. 21
22 HOFE'S POSITION PAPER: CONSOLIDATED TO THE CURRENT FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CRISIS FOR THE PUBLIC PUBLIC AND PUBLIC FINANCIAL CONTROLS FOR THE EU AND THE HOFE'S ROLE The ongoing global financial and economic crisis had far-reaching consequences for the European Union.
To address the crisis, the EU took measures to ensure the long-term sustainability of the financial sector, to promote economic recovery and growth, to provide financial assistance to Member States and to strengthen financial and economic coordination between Member States.
Furthermore, these measures have a decisive influence on how public funds, i.e. EU citizens' taxpayers' money, are used in the Union.
These changes to the Union's regulatory structure present new challenges in terms of accountability, transparency and public financial control.
The Court considers that, when implementing these new measures, the principle is that appropriate procedures for transparency, public accountability and public financial control should be laid down whenever public funding is involved.
The Court therefore adopted a position paper on 19 May 2011 on the impact of the current financial and economic crisis on public accountability and public financial control in the EU and on the role of the Court.
In this position paper, the Court concluded that it would include the new supervisory authorities, the support mechanisms with EU budget guarantees, and, where possible, the Commission's activities under the European Semester in its audits.
The Court considers that the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism should provide for a form of external public financial control.
Finally, the Court notes that, in a number of cases, accountability and transparency issues need to be considered by the relevant EU institutions, in particular by the European Parliament and the Council.
COOPERATION WITH OTHER SAIs The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCs) mainly in the following bodies: o Contact Committee of the SAIs of EU Member States; o Network of the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; o International organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
CONTACT COMMITTEE In accordance with the EU Treaty, the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies shall cooperate with each other with confidence, while respecting their independence.
The Court actively cooperates with the SAIs of the EU Member States within the Contact Committee.
The Contact Committee shall meet once a year between the Presidents of the EU-ORKB and the Court.
The Contact Committee shall provide a forum for cooperation and the exchange of expertise and experience in the field of the examination of EU funds and other EU issues.
Working groups have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2011, the Court was acting Chairman of the Contact Committee, continued to provide administrative support to the Committee and actively participated in the various working groups and networks.
The annual meeting of the Contact Committee in 2011 took place on 13 and 14 October 2011 on the premises of the Court.
The meeting focused on a seminar on the impact of the European Semester and other recent developments in the EU's economic governance on the EU and the Court of Auditors.
In this context, the Commission addressed, inter alia, the regulation and supervision of financial systems and financial institutions, state aid to the financial sector and the examination of the mechanisms to deal with the euro crisis.
The Contact Committee adopted a declaration addressed to the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission, and to the parliaments and governments of the EU Member States.
In addition, the Contact Committee adopted a resolution to take account of the reputation of the SAIs of the euro area countries for adequate external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
Declaration and resolution are available on the website of the Contact Committee (www.contactcommitte.eu).
23 Key speakers at the 2011 Contact Committee meeting: Commissioner Olli Rehn, Luxembourg's Finance Minister Luc Frieden and ECB Vice-President Vítor Constâncio, together with Vítor Caldeira, President of the Court of Auditors (third from the left).
24 DECLARATION ON THE IMPACT OF THE EUROPEAN SEMESTER AND OTHER JUNE DEVELOPMENTS IN THE EU'S ECONOMIC TAXATION TO THE OFFER OF THE MEMBER STATES AND THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS OF ACCOUNTS. DECLARATION DECLARED IN THIS ACCOUNTS TO THE CONTRACT COMMITTEE OF 14 OCTOBER 2011 THE PRINCIPLES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION'S MEMBER STATES AND THE EUROPEAN COURT OF ACCOUNTS SHALL BE DECLARED IN THE ACCOUNTS OF THE ACCOUNTS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION ON 14 OCTOBER 2011 THE PRINCIPLES TO BE TAKEN IN THE CONTRACTS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE BASIS OF FUTURE CONTRACTS OF THE FUTURE ACCOUNTS ON Adequate Public Financial Control THE Contact Committee is convinced that whenever public resources are used, the following principles should be respected: o "sufficient transparency in the form of reliable and timely information (including national statistics) on the ongoing or planned use of public resources and the associated risks; o reasonable accountability, whereby the decision-makers and the administrators are required to contribute to the management, to transparency and to the use;
With a view to an effective response to the economic and financial crisis and its consequences in the field of public financial control, the EU and the Court of Auditors will, to the extent possible and within their respective mandates, consider adapting their audit work to the new framework.
In some cases, this process has already begun by introducing new and updated audit tasks.
25 Further development of cooperation between the EU SAIs and the Court The growing interdependence of the EU's economic systems makes clear the value of a common approach, which can be gained through close cooperation within the Liaison Committee.
This includes: o "joint learning from recent audit results and their impact as a way of collecting and sharing knowledge; o identifying and disseminating current best practices in the audit of new (and existing) regulations; o identifying gaps in public financial control and potential new audit tasks as well as new partnerships and considering how best to proceed in this context; o considering the development of specific audit methods and techniques for the SAIs as well as tools and guidance for their application; the Contact Committee will develop existing audit networks in the "Europe 2020" and fiscal policy areas, carry out parallel or coordinated audit activities, and initiate the appropriate cooperation activities.
Contact Committee meeting in Luxembourg on 13 and 14 October 2011
26 NETWORK OF THE SAIs OF THE CERTAIN COUNTRIES AND THE POTENCIAL COUNTRIES The Court actively participated in the activities of the SAIs of the candidate countries and the potential candidate countries1.
The organisational structure of the network is comparable to that of the Contact Committee and includes regular meetings of the presidents of the SAIs and liaison officers as well as working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel audits.
The main objective is to promote the use of audit methods and procedures consistent with international standards and best EU methods.
A meeting of the network presidents took place in Istanbul on 8 and 9 March 2011.
The Turkish Court of Auditors and the European Court of Auditors had the joint chair at this meeting, which led to the adoption of the Istanbul Agreement, including a work programme for future activities, to be implemented with active support from the European Court of Auditors, SIGMA and representatives of the EU ORKB.
OTHER COOPERATION FORMS In 2011, the European Court of Auditors, with the participation of the SAIs of Austria and Finland, carried out a peer review of the Norwegian Court of Auditors.
The report was published in June 2011.
The Court continued its active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI.
Since 2004, when the Court became a full member of the INTOSAI, he actively participates in the subcommittees on the technical standards for the various types of examination.
In the course of 2011, these subcommittees began implementing their new work plans, following the confirmation of a comprehensive International Standards (ISSAI) package by the XX INCOSAI Congress in November 2010, in which the focus is on the harmonisation of the ISSAI framework and the dissemination of standards and guidelines.
In addition, the Court contributed to the Sub-Committee "Promoting Best Practices and Quality Assurance through Voluntary Peer Reviewing" and the Sub-Committee "Strengthening Support for Measures for the Development of Practices of the INTOSAI Members" and the INTOSAI Environmental Review Working Group.
The Court has also chaired the INTOSAI working group on the accountability and audit of disaster relief since 2008.
An important objective of this working group is to develop guidelines and to identify and disseminate best practice in the field of disaster response accountability, focusing on the activities aimed at stakeholders (multilateral bodies, relief organisations, governments, private auditors).
1 In February 2012, the network included five candidate countries (Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro and Turkey) and three potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia).
With regard to EUROSAI, the Court is now more involved, as it will become a member of the Bureau for the next six years.
The Court actively participated in the VIII EUROSAI Congress (30 May to 2 June 2011), which had the challenges, requirements and responsibilities of public administrations and the role of SAIs as well as the SAIs' consideration of independent regulatory agencies as the focal points.
A declaration was adopted to strengthen the independence of the SAIs.
In December 2011, the joint efforts of the INTOSAI community and its regional working groups to strengthen the independence of the SAIs and to recognise the declarations of Lima and Mexico culminated in the adoption of the resolution "Promoting an efficient, accountable, effective and transparent public administration by strengthening the Supreme Audit Authorities" by the United Nations General Assembly. 27
28 OTHER ACTIVITIES POWERS OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS IN THE COOPERATION OF VAT OWN RESOURCES On 15 November 2011, the Court of Justice delivered its judgment in Case C-539/09 Commission v Federal Republic of Germany on the audit powers of the European Court of Auditors in the field of own resources in the field of value added tax (VAT).
The case stems from the refusal by the German Federal Ministry of Finance in 2006 to allow the European Court of Auditors to carry out audits of the administrative cooperation of Member States in the field of VAT in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 in Germany.
In preparing its Special Report No 8/2007, the Court decided to carry out audits in eight Member States, including Germany.
The German authorities objected to the Court's right to carry out the examination in question.
The German Government argued that the cooperation between the managing authorities of the Member States, as provided for in Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003, was not directly linked to the EU's revenue as VAT was to be distinguished from VAT own resources.
The latter are determined according to a series of calculations and represent a relatively small proportion of the amounts collected by the Member States as value added tax.
The Court rejected the argument of the German Government based on a strict distinction between the VAT revenues of the Member States and the Union's own resources.
On the basis of the arguments put forward by the Commission, the European Parliament and the European Court of Auditors, the Court of Justice stressed the dependence of VAT own resources on the VAT receipts of the Member States.
The Court confirmed that the scope of Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 on administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax covered the definition of cooperation mechanisms between Member States that would allow them to combat VAT evasion more effectively and to impose VAT more effectively.
This also affects the availability of VAT own resources for the EU budget.
Where cooperation between national authorities is carried out effectively and in accordance with the Regulation, it may contribute to a reduction in fraud and to the effective collection of VAT in the Member States, and to the retention of VAT own resources at the level to which they have to have under the various relevant EU acts, in order to maintain the overall balance of own resources.
The Court concluded that the Court of Auditors had the power to carry out the planned examination in the context of administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax, since it had the power to carry out the audit in the field of VAT, since it concerned the EU's revenue in terms of its legality and sound financial management and was therefore directly related to the powers conferred on the Court by the Treaty.
In Case C-539/09, the Court of Justice had for the first time to decide explicitly on the scope of the Court's powers of scrutiny.
The Court's judgment is valuable and encouraging because it clarifies and underpins the institution's powers of examination vis-à-vis the Member States.
LÁZARO'S PROCEEDINGS FOR SCIENTIFIC WORKS IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR 2010 FOR the first time, the Court awarded the SCIENTIFIC WORKING IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR, with the aim of establishing contacts with universities and promoting the development of public financial control in Europe.
This first award of the award was in commemoration of Jesús Lázaro Cuenca, a former director of the Court, who had for many years contributed to the development of the examination methods and approaches of the institution.
The prizes were presented to the Lázaro winners Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo by the President of the Court of Auditors, Vítor Caldeira, and the Selection Committee, in a public ceremony to be held at the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg on 5 July 2011.
Both winners presented their scientific contributions at an academic meeting: Ms Sara Belleil: "Contribution à une sociologie des pratiques managériales dans les politiques européennes. L郁倫exemple des audit des ONG humanitaires: entre importation et appropriation ".
Mr José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo: "The control of public administration and the fight against corruption: Special reference to the Court of Audit and General audit of the state administration.
29 The European Court of Auditors was deeply concerned by the news of the premature death of Sara Belleil on 30 November 2011 and wants to pay tribute to the quality and importance of her work. President Caldeira with the Lázaro winners Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo
31 OUR MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTATION OF THE STRATEGY FOR 2009 STRATEGY 2012 In recent years, the Court has launched an internal reform process.
This included the development of its first strategy for the period 2009-20122 with the following overarching objectives: o maximising the overall impact of the audits; o improving efficiency through the best possible use of resources.
Many of the priority actions foreseen in the strategy have already been completed and the remaining actions will be completed in 2012 in 2 The audit strategy 2009-2012 is addressed at www.eca.europa.eu. The main achievements achieved in 2011 are: o an increase in the number of special reports; in 2009-2011 an average of 16 special reports have been published per year, exceeding the target of 12-15 reports per year; o important contributions to the reform of the EU budget; o an incentive to prepare regular follow-up reports on previous findings, including an overall follow-up report to be prepared for the first time in 2012; o revised audit strategies and audit directives; o increasing emphasis on core activities, by shifting staff from support services to the audit services; o publication of a position paper on the impact of the current financial and economic crisis on public accountability and financial control within the EU and on the role of the Court.
ETHIC GUIDELINES FOR THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS Following the recommendation of the 2008 peer review, the Court strengthened the framework of its audit management by adopting ethical guidelines based on the INTOSAI's obligations and code of conduct and the International Standard for Quality Control within the SAIs3.
In this context, the Court has established a procedure to provide, on an annual basis, sufficient certainty that its auditors will comply with the relevant ethical requirements.
Respect for the values laid down in the ethical guidelines, such as impartiality, objectivity, loyalty and professional secrecy, ensures that the Court's employees act in the public interest in the absence of external pressure and of any personal or financial interest.
The Court's professional behaviour framework promotes the credibility of the information submitted to its addressee.
3 ISSAI 30 and ISSAI 40.
32 ON THE WAY TO A NEW STRATEGY OF THE OF THE HOFE FOR THE PERIOD 2013GY2017 In 2011, the development of the next strategy was launched, based on the achievements of the current strategy, which ended in 2012.
The Court takes the opportunity to adapt to developments in the EU and audit and to take account of the needs and expectations of its addressees.
Members of the European Court of Auditors
LEVEL DATA ON THE HOUSE'S ADVICE IN 2011 33 Since 2008, the Court has gradually developed a set of key performance indicators (ZLIs) to inform o the management of the progress achieved in the implementation of the 2009-2012 targets; o to support the decision-making process; o to provide performance-related information to the audience.
The indicators are used to measure core parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, taking into account the point of view of key stakeholders, and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources.
2011 is the second year in which all indicators were available.
The Court continues to consider the results of its key performance indicators to be encouraging, in particular with regard to the quality and impact of its audit work.
The indicators also show clearly the areas in which progress is needed and the problems to be addressed in order to achieve a future improvement in performance.
2010 2011 4.2 4.0 ≥ 4.2 3.7 3.7 ≥ 3.7 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's reports by the main addressees Target for 2011 Evaluation of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the audited bodies The result shows that the main addressees of the Court's reports find that these average for "good."
In particular, the clarity and usefulness of the reports and the professionalism of the Court's auditors are appreciated.
34 EXPERT REVIEWS Two external bodies have reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports published in 2011.
The auditors evaluated four special reports and the 2010 annual reports on the general budget and the EDFs.
They assessed the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "high quality" (4).
2010 2011 3.0 2.8 ≥ 3.0 Target for 2011 Audits of the Court's reports and presentations by external experts The result shows that the Court's reports are "satisfactory".
The reviews have provided valuable evidence and the resulting recommendations will be used to improve the quality of future reports.
ENFORCEMENT OF RECOMMENDATIONS With its recommendations, the Court contributes to the improvement of financial management.
The indicator is based on the recommendations in the annual and special reports published in 2011.
2010 2011 90 % 93 % ≥ 90 % target for 2011 Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audited body In 2011, the Court began to systematically monitor the implementation of the recommendations by the audited bodies.
From 2012 onwards, the Court will be able to report to what extent the recommendations are implemented in practice and to what extent they will improve.
EFFICIENCY AND EFFICIENCY OF RESOURCES The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources according to the extent to which it is able to present reports and audit findings on time, to fulfil its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its employees.
POSSIBLE REPORTS The Court endeavours to adopt all audit reports within the specified time limits.
For the annual reports and special annual reports, the dates laid down in the legislation must be observed.
In the case of special reports where there is no publication date specified in legislation, the planned date of acceptance shall be considered as the time-scale of punctuality.
35 4 2010 90% Number of reports adopted on time 80% 2011 83% 90% 75% 90% Overall, the Court did not fully meet its targets in 2011.
The very high target for the number of reports was not met, the overall target of 12-15 special reports per year was exceeded, and output was higher than 2010.
All the annual reports and, with the exception of all the special annual reports, all the annual reports have been adopted on schedule and published on time.
4 The targets for these indicators have been modified from 100% (2008-2010) to 90% to take account of unexpected events.
The audit reports shall contain details of the specific audit findings and shall be prepared after verification visits to Member States or to the Commission.
The Court uses them to confirm the factual accuracy of its findings by the audited bodies. The audit reports therefore constitute an important stage in the audit process.
The Court has previously established that there is a considerable need for improvement in the preparation of the audit communications in terms of punctuality. The target to be achieved by the end of 2012 is to produce 80% of the audit notifications within two months of the audit visit in question.
2010 2011 Percentage of audit notices issued on time 54% 58% target for 20114 Number of reports accepted compared to the number of reports planned 80% target for 2011 to 2012 The Court improved the punctuality of audit notices in 2011 but the target has not yet been reached.
Significant progress has been made over the past three years (only 27% of audit reports were drawn up on time in 2008) and the Court will continue to strive to improve its performance.
36 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court strives to obtain a full audit opinion from its independent auditor on the annual accounts and the use of resources and to obtain discharge from the European Parliament on the basis of a favourable Council recommendation.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide auditors with on average 40 hours (five days) of professional training (without language courses).
GRAD TO THE SAFETY OF THE PERSONAL In a 2009 internal employee satisfaction survey, 86% of the Court's employees were generally satisfied with their work, with a total of 2.8 employees' satisfaction on a scale of 1 to 4. Each figure of more than 2.5 indicates general satisfaction.
The Court aims to maintain or improve this outcome when a similar survey is conducted in 2012.
VOLUNTARY ASSISTANCE The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by the Court's specialised departments.
These services provide the logistical and technical know-how which enables the Court to o recruit, retain and motivate its staff and develop its professional skills; o disseminate the audit results in all the official languages of the EU; o make the best use of information technology; o manage its budget and manage its infrastructure; o carry out audit visits to obtain evidence on the spot in the countries in which EU funds are collected and spent.
37 PERSONAL PERSONAL ASSESSMENT The Court's most important capital is its employees.
As of 31 December 2010, the staff of the Court amounted to 887 staff (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 564 are in audit chambers (including 123 in members' cabinets), 148 in the Translation Directorate, 148 in administrative support services and 27 in the President's services.
In 2011, with a view to achieving the best possible use of resources, all of the departments once again explored and implemented ways to increase efficiency by simplifying procedures.
Where possible, efficiency gains outside of the audit area have shifted posts to the audit service, which has contributed more than half to the 12,6 % increase in audit posts in the audit area since 2008.
Distribution of Court posts on 31 December 2008 2009 2010 2011 Examination 501 525 557 564 Translation 163 163 151 148 Administration 173 171 157 148 Presidential services 20 21 24 27 Total 857 880 889 887
38 TERMINATIONS The staff of the Court have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the staff of both officials and temporary staff.
The European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) organises general selections for European Court posts.
In addition, the Court, like the other EU institutions, like the other EU institutions, promotes a policy of equal opportunities within the framework of its staff policy and in the case of recruitment.
After continuous growth in the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now reached a balanced proportion of men and women among its employees.
In 2011, the Court hired 75 employees: 23 officials, 24 temporary staff and 28 contract staff.
In particular, the Court succeeded in recruiting new personnel to audit posts.
On 31 December 2011, 25 vacancies were vacant – much less than in 2010 (44).
This meant that for the first time the vacancy rate fell below 3%.
2001 2011 Men 54% 50% Women 46% 50% The following graph shows the share of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2011.
Of the 65 directors and heads of units, 18 (28%) are women, which corresponds to the development in recent years.
However, most of them are in the Directorate of Translation and Administration.
After the last recruitment waves, 45% of the employees in grades AD5 to AD8 are women.
ALTERSPROFILE The age profile of the staff in active employment on 31 December 2010 indicates that 60% of the staff of the Court are 44 years of age or younger.
Age 20-24 0.0 % 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 23 of the 65 directors and heads of unit are 55 years of age or older.
As a result, a substantial renewal in senior management positions will take place in the next five to ten years.
39 3.8% 16.3% 20.7% 19.2% 17.5% 11.5% 7.6% 3.4 % VOCATIONAL TRAINING The occupation of the examiner requires continuous training to keep pace with new developments and to acquire new skills.
In 2011, the staff of the Court completed an average of 9.3 days of professional training.
Language courses accounted for 54% of the total number of training days (compared to 57% in 2010).
In addition to language courses, the examiners completed 6.1 days of professional training in 2011 and thus met an important target of the institution.
Improvements in the content of the training measures were made in 2011 and new courses were developed in order to meet the audit priorities.
The Court has also streamlined the administrative system for training.
TRANSLATION Translation is an important activity of audit support which enables the Court to fulfil its mission and to fulfil its communication objectives.
In 2011, the volume of translation was comparable to the volume of work of 2010.
Over 99% of the translation services were provided on time.
In 2011, additional posts and staff from the Translation Directorate were transferred to the Examination Service.
The Court's Translation Directorate also provided valuable linguistic support for auditors on missions and the subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
The Directorate for Translation also supported the Contact Committee, working groups of INTOSAI and met other specific needs related to the audit work of the Court.
In addition, the Directorate for the Translation of the Court was actively involved in interinstitutional and international specialised bodies.
40 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology (IT) plays a key role in implementing the overall objectives of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy.
In 2011, the Court took the following steps: the reinforcement of its investment in knowledge management by launching the development of a new version of the impact support instrument (project called ‘Assyst2') on the basis of the recently established cooperation platform; the active continuation of its efforts to streamline internal operations through electronic operations in areas such as the management of missions and training; and the electronic archiving of staff files in order to continuously increase efficiency and effectiveness; and the continued support for mobility through the use of smartphones and laptop computers; and the launching of an Extranet project, which will also play a key role in simplifying electronic exchange with a wide range of Court partners (including audited bodies, budgetary authorities, newly recruited staff, suppliers).
These developments were carried out while strengthening operational security and emergency procedures to ensure the necessary availability and quality of all the Court's IT services.
MANAGEMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE The role of the Financial and Support Services Directorate is to provide the Court's auditors with efficient, effective, timely and appropriate support and to ensure that the necessary financial, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all of the Court's activities.
In 2011, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and effectiveness to release resources to the audit service.
Following an agreement reached with the budgetary authority (Parliament and Council) at the end of 2008 on the financing of the K3 building, a key activity in 2011 was the construction of the second extension building to the main building of the courtyard.
The construction work was completed in the course of 2011, and the shell was made weatherproof at the end of the year.
A great deal of progress has been made in interior design.
The time and budget framework of the construction project is respected.
The yard is expected to take possession of the building at the end of 2012 and the relocations are expected to take place in the first quarter of 2013.
Analysis carried out in 2009 and 2010 led the Court to conclude that its safety objectives could be best achieved and that the most efficient and cost-effective management of risks could be achieved in the in-house delivery of the reception and security services.
This was achieved in April 2011 by replacing the external contractor for security services with a small team of contract staff.
The annual costs will be more than 0.5 million euros lower in 2012 than in 2009.
TEST TEST In the course of the Court's audit work, the auditors must travel to the Member States and to other recipients of EU funds as well as to the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations.
The purpose of these verification visits is to obtain direct proof of verification.
The visits are usually carried out by central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and disbursement of EU funds, as well as by the respective final beneficiaries.
Within the EU, the audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Authorities of the Member State visited.
The audit teams typically consist of two to three auditers and the duration of an audit trip may be up to two weeks, depending on the type of audit and the distance.
EXPERTS IN 2011 34 33 32 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 In 2011, the Court carried out a total of 379 audit visits5 – 343 in Member States and 36 outside the EU – in the context of audits relating to the annual reports and special annual reports and selected audit tasks.
A similar number of audit visits were made to the EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg.
5 This corresponds to the number of Member States and the beneficiary countries to which audit visits were carried out in the context of each audit task.
In 2010, the corresponding figure was 376.
30 41 25 19 19 17 Verification visits within the EU 15 Total 343 12 12 11 11 Verification visits outside the EU 10 10 10 Total 36 99 555 44322 32221111111111111 Spain United Kingdom Germany Italy France Belgium Poland Portugal Greece Czech Republic Netherlands Austria Hungary Finland Ireland Romania Denmark Sweden Latvia Slovenia Luxembourg Slovakia Bulgaria Cyprus Malta Switzerland Serbia Burkina Faso Israel Malawi Tanzania Albania Barbados Benin Cameroon Chad Congo Croatia East Timor Georgia Guyana Kazakhstan Mozambique Nicaragua Nigeria Norway Philippines Senegal Tunisia Vietnam Zambia
FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Court is financed by the general budget of the EU.
Its budget accounts for about 0.1% of total EU expenditure and less than 2% of total administrative expenditure.
CHAPTER 3 — BUDGET BUDGET 2011 43 BUDGET YEAR 2011 Final appropriations Commitments Use of appropriations in % (commitments/deductible appropriations) Payments (EUR 1 000) Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions Title 1 Total Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 12 817 87 382 3 820 2 827 1 530 108 376 5 913 4 702 691 265 570 733 12 874 121 250 13 411 95 416 4 205 3 652 2 485 119 169 12 952 87 624 3 864 3 417 2 115 972 97 % 92 % 92 % 94% 85 % 92% 92% 91% 84% 84% 94% 94% 93% 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 20 – Building 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212, 216 – Mobilias and 9 Conferences and expenditures 1 443 443
44 In 2011, the overall budget implementation rate was 93 %.
For Title 1, this rate is 92%, the lowest in Chapter 16 (Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution) (85%).
For Title 2, the average execution rate is 97%.
The amount of payments charged to Chapter 20 (buildings) is dependent on the work on the construction of the K3 building.
The third tranche of EUR 7 million for this project was entered in the 2011 budget, which was committed and partially paid in 2011.
The remaining amount of funds for the K3 building was transferred to the year 2012 and is to be used to finance the works contracts and contracts awarded by the project manager on behalf of the Court.
The funds will be used in the manner set out in the Court's request to the European Parliament and the Council in 2008.
Construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of EUR 79 million, which will be financed in five consecutive years: EUR 55 million in 2009; EUR 11 million in 2010; EUR 7 million in 2011; and EUR 3 million each in 2012 and 2013.
2012 BUDGET BUDGET The 2012 budget budget budget decreased by 1.28 % compared to 2011, mainly due to a reduction in the budget allocated to the K3 building.
Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution Title 1 — Total Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 14 592 96 487 4 173 3 802 2 682 121 736 9 9 941 6 501 837 525 793 2 144 20 741 142 477 12 930 95 957 3 825 3 652 2 485 118 849 14 611 6 500 816 422 893 2 240 25 482 144 331 45 HOUSEHOLD 2012 2011 (1 000 Euro) 20 – Building 210 – Computer and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 23 – Current operating costs 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications Total of the Court of Auditors Title 2 — Total of the institution 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external expenditures
46 TESTING AND ACCOUNTING INTERNAL VERIFICATION The role of the Internal Audit Service is to provide independent and objective assurance and advisory services designed to provide added value to the Court's activities and to improve them.
It assists the Court in achieving the institution's objectives by applying a systematic and rigorous approach to the evaluation and presentation of recommendations to improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
In carrying out its task, the Internal Audit Service acts in accordance with the EU Financial Regulation, the legislation applicable to EU officials and the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Audit.
In 2009, the "Internal Audit" department of the Court was audited and certified in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE COURT The annual accounts of the European Court of Auditors shall be audited by an independent auditor.
This is a key element of the Court's efforts to ensure that it applies the same transparency and accountability principles to itself as to the bodies it assesses.
In 2011, the Court's Internal Audit Service presented reports on the state of implementation of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy; implementation of key performance indicators; establishment of the Court's new K3 building; use of the trust account for payments to eligible beneficiaries; follow-up to previous recommendations.
The Internal Audit Service assisted the Court's independent auditor in the Court's audit in every respect with regard to the certification of the Court's annual accounts and the effectiveness of its internal control procedures.
The Court's Committee for Internal Audit advises on internal audit issues and monitors the internal control environment associated with it in the context of the institution's risk management procedures.
In 2011, the Internal Audit Committee and the Internal Audit Committee analysed the results of the Internal Audit Service's audits, the implementation of the action plans affecting the internal control environment and the risks to the governance of the institution.
The auditor's audit report – PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL – on the Court of Auditors' annual accounts for the financial year 2010 was published in September 20116.
47 AUDIT TYPES OF THE INDEPENDENT OF THE BUDGET AUDIT IN 2010 TO THE ANNUAL FINAL ANNUAL FINAL YEAR: "We believe that the financial statements reflect the real situation of the European Court of Auditors' financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2010 and that the cash flows for the year ending on that reporting date are in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down implementing provisions for the above-mentioned Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Union." "We have not encountered the circumstances on our work described in this report that we should conclude that, in all essential respects and taking into account the above-mentioned criteria, the appropriations allocated to the Court have not been used for the purposes envisaged, and (b) the control procedures established do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable regulations and regulations."
48 DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION DECLARED BY THE DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION DECLARED BY THE DECLARATION OF THE BY THE DECLARATION I, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and, o warrants with sufficient certainty that the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that the control procedures in place provide the necessary assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the financial statements and to the appropriate management of frauds or suspicions of fraud.
This sufficient security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as the results of the ex post controls, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years.
Luxembourg, 8 March 2012 Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary-General
STRUCTURE OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS The European Court of Auditors is the independent external audit body of the European Union based in Luxembourg.
The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body of 27 members, each with one member per Member State.
Its members shall be appointed by the Council for a six-year term after consulting the European Parliament.
Members shall elect a President from among them for a term of three years, with a possibility of re-election.
The Court is organised according to chambers to which the members are assigned.
The Chambers shall prepare reports and opinions for adoption by the Court.
The examination chambers I to IV cover various revenue and expenditure areas, while the fifth, the CEAD chamber, is responsible for horizontal matters.
The chambers are supported by examination directions.
Since the Court's amendment of its Rules of Procedure in 2010, certain categories of reports and opinions of the Court may be adopted by Chambers rather than by the College of the Court as a whole.
The Management Committee shall meet under the chairmanship of the President and shall consist of the Doyens of the Chambers and the Secretary-General (responsible for the Court's administrative and support services).
The Committee has a coordinating role and prepares Court decisions on strategic planning, performance management and administrative matters.
Each member is responsible for specific tasks, primarily in the audit area.
Members shall submit proposals for examination and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible to the relevant Chamber and the Court.
After the adoption of a report, the report is presented to the European Parliament, the Council and other relevant stakeholders by the rapporteur.
The members are supported by their cabinet staff and by the examiner team appointed for the examination task. 49
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2011 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2012 – 49 pp. – 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693
Where do I get EU publications? Free publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at the representations and delegations of the European Union.
QJ-AA-12-001-EN-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu www.eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorsECA ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9
ISSN 1684-0666 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2012 ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT EN
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2013 ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 © European Union, 2013 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2012
3 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS PROCUREMENT PROCUREMENT BALANCE VALUES The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, it contributes to the improvement of EU financial management, promotes accountability and transparency, and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
INDEPENDENTITY, INTEGRITY AND INTEGRITY PROFESSIONALITY VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its staff.
To maintain a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Active participation in the further development of public financial control at EU and worldwide level.
The preparation of relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and supporting documents, taking into account the concerns of its addressees, and including important and forward-looking statements.
To contribute to an effective improvement in the management of the EU budget and contribute to an increase in accountability in the management of EU funds.
Promote team spirit through effective communication.
5 CONTENTS Page 6 PREVENTION OF THE PRESIDENT 8 2012 AT A BENEFIT 9 OUR ACTIVITIES 9 AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS 30 COOPERATION WITH OTHER OUR BENEFIT ACCOUNT AUTHORITIES 34 OUR MANAGEMENT 35 EXCHANGES IN THE COURT'S COLLECTION 36 MEASUREMENT DATA BENEFIT THE COURT 44 SUPPORTING THE AUDIT ACTIVITIES 49 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 52 AUDIT AND ACCOUNTS 53 DECLARATION OF THE COLLECTIVE ADVICES 54 35 YEARS IN THE SERVICE OF A BENEFIT FUNCTIONING THE EU 6 PREVENTION OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome to reading the 2012 Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors!
In 2012, an important focus of the Court's work was to prepare the Union for the key challenges of financial management after 2013.
At the beginning of the year, the Court adopted its opinion on some of the proposals for regulations on the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), the most famous EU policy.
The draft regulation was part of the package of legislative proposals related to the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020.
With a number of opinions and reports published in 2012, the Court actively contributed to the strengthening of the new arrangements to which the EU's revenue and expenditure will be subject in that period.
In addition, the Court continued to closely monitor the impact of developments in EU economic governance on public accountability and financial control in 2012.
This year, the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism entered into force, and the Audit Committee of that new body, including a representative of the Court, met for its first meeting.
In December 2012, the Council of the European Union adopted its position on the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism to ensure oversight of euro area credit institutions and the Court announced its position on public accountability and financial control to EU policy-makers.
Many changes in economic governance and in the EU budget result from the need to improve policy outcomes with lower public resources while strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability.
Due to its unique powers and perspective on the one hand, and the experience gained in the course of its 35 years of experience, and the partnerships established, on the other hand, the Court is well positioned to support the EU in addressing these challenges.
Based on its achievements in recent years, the Court's objective is to maximise the Court's contribution to improving the EU's accountability in the 2013-2017 period.
The court is currently celebrating its 35th anniversary.
Europe has changed radically since the Court began its work in 1977.
The structure of the Court and the way in which it performs its tests reflect these changes.
With the accession of new Member States, the transfer of competences to the Union and the establishment of numerous bodies at EU level, the audit area of the Court has expanded.
The Court has also grown as an institution, from nine members and 120 employees in 1977 to 27 members and nearly 900 employees in 2012.
This growth enabled the farm to build a professional, committed and experienced workforce.
2012 was the last year the Court's strategy for the period 2009-2012 was for.
The Court has shown encouraging results over the course of this period.
This Annual Activity Report shows that output has been increased, that external experts consider the quality of our reports to be good, and that the main institutional stakeholders find it useful.
The level of acceptance of the Court's recommendations by the Commission is consistently high and the Court's new follow-up report highlights the positive impact of the recommendations.
The Court can also demonstrate efficiency gains in the area of administration and translation, which led to the deployment of 40 additional employees in the audit area at the end of the period.
To achieve the targets for the 2013-2017 period, the Court will give priority to products to improve the EU's accountability obligation and will expand and expand its partnerships, professionalism and efficiency.
In 2013, an international peer review team will examine the Court's peer review practice and follow up on the results of the previous peer review of 2008.
Other key actions launched in 2013 include streamlining the Court's reporting procedures and making even better use of our shared knowledge base, expertise and expertise.
These and other initiatives will help the EU address its growing challenges in the area of public accountability and financial control in the coming years.
Mr Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 7
8 2012 AT A GLANCE OF OUR ACTIVITIES o Annual reports on the EU general budget and on the European Development Funds for the financial year 2011, improving clarity and information. o 50 specific annual reports on the various agencies, decentralised bodies and other EU bodies for the financial year 2011. o 25 special reports on certain budgetary areas or management issues. o 9 opinions on financial reform, such as the reform of the common agricultural policy and a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against fraud against the financial interests of the European Union.
OUR MANAGEMENT o Adoption of a new strategy for 2013-2017, which will guide the Court's activities during this period, with the aim of maximising the value of the Court's contribution to the EU's public accountability. o Our key performance indicators for the period 2008-2012 show an improved performance; for the first time, they measure the proportion of our recommendations that has been implemented. o Further development of the Court's personnel policy and the continuation of the sourcing of the audit service, through efficiency gains in the administrative and translation sectors, have increased the Court's ability to fulfil its mission. o Construction work on the K3 building – the Court's second extension – has been completed, allowing the Court's entire staff to be accommodated at a single location.
9 OUR ACTIVITIES REPORTS AND OPINIONS The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are the following: o Annual reports – with the results of its audits of the accounts and compliance audits of the budget of the European Union and of the European Development Funds (EDF); in addition, special annual reports on agencies, decentralised bodies and other bodies of the EU are published separately; o Special reports – with the results of its selected audits on specific budget or management areas in the course of the year, with their main impact assessments; o Opinions on draft legal acts with impact on financial management and statements and position papers on other issues on the Court's own initiative.
Since 2008, the number of the Court's special annual reports and special reports has increased considerably.
The annual reports have also been further developed: more analytical information is now available, the presentation of the data has been more standardised to facilitate the comparison between areas and over time, and a new chapter on performance-related issues has been added.
The significant increase in the opinions issued is due to the fact that the Court has been consulted on the large legislative proposals relating to the new financial framework (2014-2020).
Number of reports and opinions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised bodies 29 37 40 42 50 Special reports 12 18 14 16 25 Opinions and other statements 5 1 6 8 10 TOTAL 48 58 62 68 87 The full text of the individual reports and opinions is available on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in 22 EU official languages.
10 TEST TESTS IN 2012 While the vast majority of the audit work is carried out on the Court premises in Luxembourg, the auditors also make visits to the EU institutions, agencies and decentralised bodies, the authorities of the Member States and other recipients of EU funds (including the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations in Switzerland).
The audit visits shall normally apply to central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and disbursement of EU funds, as well as to the respective final beneficiaries.
The audit visits within the EU are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Authorities of the Member States visited.
The audit teams typically consist of two to three auditors and the duration of an audit trip may be up to two weeks, depending on the type of audit and the distance to be carried out.
In 2012, the Court's auditors spent 6 816 days on-the-spot audits – 6 054 in the Member States and 762 outside the EU – and obtained audit evidence for the annual reports, the specific annual reports and the selected audit tasks.
They spent a similar amount of time at the EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg.
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 spot audit days 2012 00 Spain France United Kingdom Poland Italy Germany Greece Romania Portugal Netherlands Czech Republic Hungary Lithuania Luxembourg Denmark Austria Sweden Slovenia Bulgaria Latvia Finland Ireland Belgium Estonia Slovakia Malta Cyprus Uzbekistan Russia USA Norway Morocco Namibia Ukraine Guatemala Turkey Kyrgyzstan Switzerland Kosovo Senegal Ethiopia Cameroon Serbia Indonesia Egypt Zambia Israel Congo
11 The key statements of the 2011 Annual Report o The financial statements for the 2011 financial year are the financial situation of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year in question.
The revenue and commitments were not significantly affected by errors.
However, payments were substantially affected by errors, with the estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole being 3.9%.
This error rate is comparable to that of 2010, which was 3.7%. o All EU expenditure areas assessed individually are error-free except for external relations, external assistance and enlargement, as well as administrative expenditure.
This shows that improvements are still needed in the management of EU funds. o The Court's estimate of the error rate of rural, environmental, fisheries and health expenditure (the most error-prone area of expenditure) was 7.7 %.
The estimated error rate for regional policy, energy and transport remained high at 6.0%. o The Commission's reservations have seen an increase, with the Commission's directors-general's risk-weighted amount rising from EUR 0.4 billion in 2010 to EUR 2.0 billion in 2011.
This is due to the fact that the Commission has recognised the existence of a high risk of error in a number of areas, in particular rural development, cohesion and research. o Overall, the control systems examined are only partially effective to ensure the regularity of payments and do not provide for the prevention or detection and correction of errors to the extent that this would actually be possible.
Many cases have been identified in which controls have failed. o The self-assessment carried out by the Commission in the light of its performance has resulted in further developments which have resulted in welcome improvements compared with previous years.
Nevertheless, in 2011 the Court's audit carried out an audit of the Court's performance, which found that the quality of the quality of the needs of the Court was often lacking, that weaknesses in the programme's design had to be ineffective in reporting the results and effects, and that the Commission had to demonstrate European added value.
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET FOR THE 2011 BUDGET The Court devoted most of its audits to accounting and compliance audits to the implementation of the 2011 EU budget during 2012.
The 2011 Annual Report, which emerged from this work, was published on 6 November 2012.
The objective of the annual report is to support the European Parliament, the Council and citizens in evaluating the quality of EU financial management and to recommend appropriate improvements by submitting findings and conclusions.
The 18th Annual Statement of Assurance (DASprocess) on the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions is the key element of the annual reports for the financial year 2011.
The annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2011 included two new chapters that included more focused results for agriculture and cohesion.
The former chapter on agriculture and natural resources was replaced by the chapter on "Agriculture: market support and direct payments" and "Rural development, environment, fisheries and health".
In addition, the separate chapters on regional policy, energy and transport, and on employment and social affairs, replace the earlier chapter on cohesion, energy and transport.
12 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR 2011 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are funded by EU Member States, but managed outside the EU budget, subject to their own financial rules.
The European Commission is responsible for the financial management of operations financed from EDF resources.
From the European Development Funds (EDF), the European Union grants development cooperation assistance to the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) and to the overseas countries and territories (OCTs) on the basis of the Cotonou Agreement signed in 2000.
This expenditure is aimed at reducing poverty and finally defeating it, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the ACP States and OCTs into the global economy.
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars, namely development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension.
The Court's 2011 annual report on the EDF was published in parallel with the annual report on the EU budget on 6 November 2012.
The Court noted that the financial statements of the EDFs in 2011 were in line with the financial situation of the EDFs and the results of their operations and cash flows.
However, 33% of EDF operations were affected by errors, including an estimated 5.1% of error payments.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORTS ON AGENCIES, DECENTRAL BOARDS AND OTHER EU BOARDS FOR 2011 In 2012, the Court published 50 special annual reports, most of which were for the 2011 financial year, on the agencies, decentralised bodies (e.g. Joint Undertakings) and other EU bodies.
EU agencies and decentralised bodies shall be established on the basis of EU acts to carry out specific tasks.
President Caldeira at the presentation of the 2011 Annual Report at the plenary session of the European Parliament (November 2012)
SPECIAL REPORTS ADOPTED IN 2012 In addition to its annual reports, the Court shall publish special reports throughout the year, containing the results of the Court's audit of the efficiency and compliance, on specific budgetary areas or management issues of its choice.
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court is committed to achieving maximum impact and thus to making the best use of its resources.
In selecting subjects, the Court takes account of the following factors: the risks of economic viability or compliance with legal standards in the area of revenue or expenditure in question; the amount of revenue or expenditure in question; the time elapsed since a previous audit; and the following developments within the relevant legal framework; and the political and public interest.
In 2012, the Court adopted 25 special reports covering a wide range of topics.
This represents a marked increase compared to the 16 special reports adopted in 2011 (and the 12 in 2008).
All special reports are available in 22 EU languages on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in full or on the EU Bookshop.
The following pages present the topics of the special reports adopted in 2012 under the relevant headings of the 2013-2017 Financial Framework – the EU's multiannual budgeting.
14 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – SUSTAINABLE GROWTH EU spending on sustainable growth covers two areas: Competitiveness includes promoting research and technological development, Europe's networking through EU networks, education and training, promoting competitiveness in a fully integrated internal market, the social agenda and the dismantling of nuclear installations.
The EU budget for growth and employment for 2007-2013 amounts to 89.4 billion euros, 9.2% of the EU budget, of which nearly two-thirds is for research and development.
Cohesion for growth and employment mainly concerns cohesion policy implemented through funds for specific activities: the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF).
The EU budget for cohesion for the period 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 348.4 billion and 35.7% of the total EU budget.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Financial instruments for SMEs co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (No 2/2012) – This special report assessed the effectiveness and effectiveness of the ERDF co-financed financial measures in the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods; the audit covered a sample of projects in Germany, Portugal, Slovakia, Hungary and the United Kingdom and also included an audit of the Commission and Member States' administrative, monitoring and information systems.
The Court concluded that the effectiveness and efficiency of the expenditure of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) on financial instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) have been impaired because the regulatory framework did not provide an adequate basis for the use of the various types of financial instruments.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are the backbone of the EU economy and provide employment, innovation and prosperity.
However, SMEs may not be able to cover their financial needs, in the form and amount they need.
To support them, the EU is implementing its corporate and cohesion policy, mainly in the form of aid, and increasingly in the form of financial instruments under the ERDF.
Financial instruments are repayable revolving instruments.
According to the Commission figures, ERDF allocations for financial instruments amount to EUR 1.6 billion and EUR 10.4 billion for the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods, respectively.
o Structural Funds – Has the Commission responded effectively to shortcomings identified in the Member States' management and control systems?
(No 3/2012) – This special report examined the extent to which the Commission initiated appropriate corrective action, ensured its timely implementation, and had sufficient assurance that its action had achieved appropriate financial corrections to past irregularities and improvements in the systems in order to avoid the recurrence of irregularities.
The examination was primarily based on a review of 40 programmes where significant deficiencies had been identified.
The Court noted that the Commission was fairly successful in ensuring the correct application of financial corrections in relation to the shortcomings in Member States' management and control systems, but that it was only to a lesser degree certain that its actions resulted in improvements in Member States' systems.
Structural Fund expenditure is subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
Member States shall draw up multiannual programmes, which shall be examined and approved by the Commission and subsequently implemented by the Member States.
In the event of significant deficiencies in the management and control systems of the Member States, the Commission seeks to ensure that irregularities are corrected and systems are improved. o Use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds to co-finance transport infrastructure in seaports: an effective investment?
(No 4/2012) – This special report assessed the effectiveness of the objectives and outputs of 27 projects co-financed by the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund during the period 2000-2006 under the reporting code of ‘Transport infrastructure'.
The Court found that investment in maritime port infrastructure in cohesion policy was only effective for 11 of the 27 projects audited.
Maritime transport is the second most important mode of transport in the EU.
The Commission forecasts growth of 3.8 billion tonnes in 2006 to 5.3 billion tonnes in 2018.
Since 2000, the EU has provided some 6.2 billion euros from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund for co-financing the seaport infrastructure.
15 Review of EU transport expenditure
16 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – SUSTAINABLE GROWTH o Does support for urban waste management infrastructure projects under structural measures provide effective support to Member States in achieving the objectives of the EU waste policy?
(No 20/2012) – This special report assessed the performance of 26 sampled infrastructure projects for waste management, the achievement of the objectives of the EU waste policy and the implementation of accompanying measures in the eight regions where the infrastructure is located.
The Court noted that the effectiveness of the promotion of urban waste infrastructure under EU structural measures has been affected by the inadequate implementation of accompanying measures and by weaknesses in EU legislation and guidelines.
In 2010, each citizen of the 27 EU Member States generated an average of about 500 kg of waste which, if not properly collected, treated and disposed of, can lead to negative environmental impacts.
The EU has introduced common standards and targets in the form of directives for the management of municipal waste and has co-financed infrastructure for waste management in certain regions.
During the period 2000-2013, the EU earmarked EUR 10.8 billion for waste management infrastructure. o Cost-effectiveness of energy efficiency investments under cohesion policy (No. 21/2012) – This special report assessed the cost-effectiveness of energy efficiency investments under cohesion policy by examining the energy efficiency projects carried out in public buildings by examining whether the right conditions had been created for planning and financing, in order to enable cost-effective energy efficiency investments, and whether the energy efficiency projects carried out in public buildings had been cost-effective.
The Court noted that the average payback period of EU investments in energy efficiency is more than 50 years (up to 150 years in extreme cases), which means that the means could be used more cost-effectively for this type of investment.
The costs of increased energy consumption, the exhaustion of fossil fuels and the impact of human action on global climate change are the drivers of the recent EU policies to increase energy efficiency.
Since 2000, the European Union has spent almost EUR 5 billion on co-financing energy efficiency measures in the Member States in the framework of cohesion policy. o Has the revitalisation of industrial and military breaks been successfully supported in the framework of EU structural measures?
(No 23/2012) – This special report examined whether the project objectives were met, whether the EU funding target was based on sound criteria and whether the results achieved were achieved at the lowest possible cost to the EU budget.
The Court assessed the performance of 27 projects for the revitalisation of waste land, using EU co-financing for the total of EUR 231 million, and analysed the instruments for revitalisation of waste land, which form the framework for the specific co-financed measures, in Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and the United Kingdom.
(The conclusions of this special report are to be published on 18 April 2013.)
In recent decades, more and more industrial and military areas have become available (so-called "waste areas").
Many areas of waste are contaminated.
Revitalisation and re-use of wasteland will be encouraged through EU structural measures with the aim of promoting the protection of human health and the environment and combating the sprawl of the landscape.
EU funding for this sector amounted to EUR 5.7 billion in the years 2000-2013.
o Response of the European Union Solidarity Fund to the earthquake in Abruzzo in 2009: relevance and cost of the actions (No 24/2012) – This special report assessed whether the actions financed were in line with the EUSF Regulation and whether the "CASE" project, to which the bulk of the expenditure was incurred, was well planned and planned, and carried out with due regard for the aspect of economy.
The Court noted that while the other projects financed were eligible, the CASE project was not in line with the EUSF Regulation.
Furthermore, there were weaknesses in the planning of the CASE project and in ensuring thrifty in its implementation.
The 2009 earthquake centred on the Italian region of Abruzzo caused more than 10 billion euros of damage.
The European Union supported Italian disaster management with a contribution of 0.5 billion euros from its solidarity fund, which was used for rescue, emergency shelter and temporary schools and for the CASE project for the construction of earthquake-proof houses.
The Cathedral of LІAquila in Italy almost four years after the 2009 earthquake o Are there instruments for monitoring the effectiveness of the expenditure of the European Social Fund for older workers?
(No 25/2012) – This special report examined whether and to what extent the Member States and the Commission have developed and used adequate instruments to assess the achievement of the targets for older workers.
Six programmes worth EUR 222 million were selected, covering four Member States: Germany, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
The Court noted that neither the Member States nor the Commission could comment on the extent to which measures supported by the ESF had a real beneficial effect on older workers.
Between 2007 and the end of 2013, ESF expenditure to support Member States in the area of employment will be more than EUR 75 billion, representing around 8% of the total EU budget.
One of the most important disadvantaged groups is older workers.
17 Newly built, earthquake-proof living space in the Italian L또Aquila
18 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – SURVEILLANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES The EU has a high political responsibility in the fields of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 413.1 billion, i.e. 42.3% of the total EU budget.
Three-quarters of the expenditure relates to direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) – the "first pillar" of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
Another fifth of the expenditure is the support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second "pillar of the CAP".
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Reform of the common organisation of the market in wine: progress made so far (No 7/2012) – This special report assessed the progress made in achieving one of the main objectives of the wine reform, namely the progress made in achieving a better balance between supply and demand.
The focus of the study was the measures "Rodition premium" and "Restructuring and conversion of vineyards", which are the two largest areas of expenditure and are of crucial importance for achieving the objective of achieving a better balance between supply and demand.
The Court noted that these two measures were in conflict with each other and that the structural surplus in supply was not significantly reduced.
The EU budget of EUR 1.1 billion was made available for the three-year period of the application of the grubbing-up measure (2008/2009 to 2010/2011).
For restructuring and conversion, EUR 4.2 billion was allocated for the ten-year period up to 2010. o Aid for the modernisation of agricultural holdings was directed towards specific objectives (No 8/2012) – This special report examined whether the EU aid to modernise agricultural holdings was directed towards EU priorities and specific needs in the Member States.
The Court noted that the measure to modernise agricultural holdings would have been potentially more effective by more targeted use of funds to achieve EU priorities and specific needs in the Member States, on the one hand, and by the effective use of selection procedures on the other.
This aid concerns the financing of investments in agricultural holdings, ranging from investments in simple items such as agricultural equipment or wooden crates for fruit to investments in complex projects such as biogas plants.
The EU budget for this aid (derived from the EAFRD) amounts to EUR 11.1 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period, representing around 11 % of all EU rural development expenditure. o Review of the control system, which regulates the production, processing, distribution and import of organic products (No 9/2012) – The special report examined whether the control system for organic products provides sufficient assurance that the key production, processing, distribution and import requirements for organic products are met.
The various bodies involved (the EU Commission and competent authorities of the Member States, accreditation bodies and control bodies) have been involved in the implementation of their tasks within the EU and in the management of the import arrangements.
The Court noted that the competent authorities in the Member States encountered difficulties in ensuring traceability of organic products, in addition to the weaknesses in the system that need to be addressed in order to ensure that the system works efficiently, and in order to ensure that consumer confidence is not undermined.
The objective of the EU legal framework for organic production is to provide a basis for the sustainable development of organic production, to ensure fair conditions of competition, to protect consumer interests and, at the same time, to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market.
A control system has been established to control and certify each operator in the supply chain. o Direct aid for suckler cows and ewes and goats in the context of the partial implementation of the single payment scheme (No 11/2012) – This special report examined whether the aid was directed towards the most relevant regions in the Member States, whether it was effective in maintaining specific production and thus to avoid negative social, economic and environmental impacts, and whether it was the subject of appropriate monitoring and evaluation by the Commission and the Member States.
The Court noted that direct CAP support for dams did not deliver better results than decoupled aid.
Following the 2003 CAP reform, agricultural aid previously granted through direct payments linked to the production of certain agricultural products (so-called ‘coupled' aid) should no longer be paid after the introduction of the single payment scheme (i.e. decoupled).
However, for certain sectors and regions, a number of derogations from the full decoupling have been provided for in order to limit the potential negative effects of an immediate transition to such a scheme.
The total budget available for this direct aid for 2011 was EUR 1.0 billion.
19 On-the-spot verification of a beneficiary holding in Spain
20 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – SURVEILLANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES o Implementation of EU hygiene rules in slaughterhouses of countries that have joined the EU since 2004 (No 14/2012) – This special report examined whether the Commission and the Member States concerned have taken the necessary measures to ensure that the appropriate adjustments have been made in slaughterhouses to EU hygiene rules.
The monitoring, guidance, implementation and financing of the measures to comply with the hygiene rules were reviewed.
The Court examined slaughterhouses in Poland, Romania, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, which had received EU funding.
While the Court found that the systems of the Commission and the competent authorities set up for the monitoring of hygiene rules were generally appropriate, the examination revealed a number of shortcomings in the implementation of these systems, which set out the need for a greater severity at all levels in order to reduce risks.
Member States that joined the EU since 2004 had to ensure that their slaughterhouses complied with EU health legislation.
As these rules generally contained much stricter requirements than the respective national rules, EU funds were allocated to help slaughterhouses to comply with the hygiene requirements and the related modernisation.
The Special Programme for Pre-Accession for Agriculture and Rural Development (Sapard Programme) provided around EUR 117 million for 241 slaughterhouses.
The support was then continued under the EAGGF and EAFRD. o The effectiveness of the single area payment scheme as a transitional scheme to support farmers in the new Member States (No 16/2012) – This special report examined the main weaknesses, such as the payments to beneficiaries of the single area payment (or only marginal) agricultural activity, the payments of abandoned areas or areas used for non-agricultural activities, payments to public authorities as well as aid, which concentrated on only a few large beneficiaries.
The Court found that some of the aid had been paid to beneficiaries who had only had only a marginal or non-agricultural activity, including public bodies, and that the distribution of the aid did not take into account the regional specificities of the agricultural activity or the contribution of farmers to the production of public goods.
In addition, the vast majority of farmers receive very small amounts of aid.
The single area payment scheme is a simplified income support scheme for farmers in the Member States that have joined the EU since 2004.
In 2011, payments amounted to around 5 billion euros.
HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – FREEDOM, SECURITY AND LAW In 2012, the Court adopted the following Special Report in this area: o Does the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund contribute effectively to the integration of third-country nationals?
(No 22/2012) – This special report assessed whether the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund, which are part of the EU General Programme "Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows" (SOLID) for the period 2007-2013, have contributed effectively to the integration of third-country nationals into the EU, whether the results have been supported by an efficient monitoring and evaluation of the programme, whether the Fund's design has contributed to the effective implementation of the funds, and whether the systems for implementing integration measures under the SOLID programme have been properly managed.
The Court found that although positive results were found for individual projects that were audited, systems that were inappropriate to measure the success of the funds had been put in place.
The effectiveness of the Funds was reduced by the design of the programme and coordination with other EU funds was insufficient.
The EU supports measures to integrate third-country nationals in EU Member States and increases solidarity through the distribution of financial burdens arising from the management of common external borders and the implementation of common policies in the areas of asylum and immigration.
The total expenditure under the EU budget for SOLID for the period 2007-2013 is expected to be EUR 4.0 billion.
21 This policy area has been established to ensure the free movement of persons and to provide citizens with a high level of protection.
It ranges from the administration of the EU's external borders to judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters.
It includes asylum and immigration policy, police cooperation and the fight against crime.
Expenditure in this area in the period 2007-2013 is expected to be EUR 12.2 billion.
22 HEAD OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – THE EU AS A GLOBAL PARTNER The EU's external relations activities focus on enlargement, achieving stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood, active support for sustainable development at international level, promoting global political governance and ensuring strategic and civil security.
The EU has allocated EUR 55.9 billion, i.e. 5.7% of its planned total expenditure, to these objectives for the period 2007-2013.
Expenditure is largely managed directly by the Commission through its central services or delegations.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Effectiveness of the European Union's development assistance in sub-Saharan Africa (No 1/2012) – This special report examined the effectiveness of the development aid in sub-Saharan Africa in the European Union in terms of food security, analysing whether EU development assistance in the area of food security is relevant to the needs and priorities of the countries, and whether the EU's actions have been effective.
The review focused on EU direct development assistance for the three pillars of food security: food availability, access to food and balanced nutrition.
The Court concluded that EU development assistance for food security in sub-Saharan Africa is predominantly effective and makes an important contribution to food security.
However, the Commission did not take sufficient account of the possibilities for EU support to other countries, which are also affected by chronic food insecurity, and did not give the food aspect an appropriate priority.
Food security is a major and persistent problem in sub-Saharan Africa, where 30% of the population is affected by hunger.
Over the period 2002-2010, the EU financed food security measures in this region, totalling more than 3.2 billion euros, from the European Development Fund (EDF). o The Joint RELEX Information System (CRIS) (No 5/2012) – This special report examined whether CRIS had been designed to meet the Commission's needs effectively and whether the information it provided was reliable.
The audit included a review of the CRIS documentation available to the Commission and a review of the data contained in CRIS.
The Court concluded that CRIS met most of the Commission's information requirements on external action effectively.
However, after ten years of development, it still has weaknesses.
CRIS is the information system set up by the Commission to support the management of external actions.
The functions of the system have been continuously extended since its commissioning in 2002.
It is now the main reference information system for the management and documentation of external actions and related reporting and is financed by both the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund (EDF).
o European Union assistance to the Turkish Cypriot Community (No 6/2012) – This special report examined whether the Commission was developing an assistance programme in line with the objectives of the instrument, whether an appropriate programme of implementation was in place, and whether the individual projects reached their respective objectives.
The purpose of the examination was not to assess whether the programme had contributed to the achievement of the political objective of reunification.
The Court noted that the programme met its objectives as a financial support instrument for the Turkish Cypriot community and that it had generally established appropriate modalities, despite considerable constraints.
Some results have already been achieved, but their sustainability is often questionable, and the most extensive project in the programme has not been established.
About one third of this amount was assessed by the Court by means of its sample of contracts. o European Union development assistance in the field of drinking water and basic sanitation in the sub-Saharan region (No 13/2012) – This special report assessed whether the Commission had managed EU development assistance in order to improve sub-Saharan Africa's drinking water and basic sanitation in a way that had achieved effective and sustainable results.
The Court noted that EU assistance has improved access to drinking water and basic sanitation.
On the other hand, less than half of the projects examined have met the needs of the beneficiaries, and the benefits will only be met if the revenue does not depend on taxes.
Improvements in water and sanitation are critical to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
Supply of clean drinking water and sanitation contributes to economic growth and poverty reduction.
EU spending on water and sanitation in the sub-Saharan region in the period 2001-2010 amounted to approximately EUR 1.0 billion, and since funding for water and sanitation is also provided for in other areas of assistance, the Commission has provided a larger total amount.
23 Wasserkiosk in Jigawa State, Nigeria
24 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – THE EU AS A GLOBAL PARTNER o Contribution of the European Development Fund (EDF) to a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa (No 17/2012) – This special report examined whether the EDF has made an effective contribution to the sustainability of the road network in sub-Saharan Africa, whether the EDF-funded road infrastructure is sustainable and whether the sustainability of road infrastructure has been effectively promoted by the Commission.
The audit focused on the technical, financial and institutional sustainability of the road infrastructure, and 48 programmes have been audited, supported by the eighth, ninth and tenth EDFs in six partner countries since 1995.
The Court concluded that the Commission's support for a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa was a conditionally effective one.
The partner countries visited by the Court do not make sufficient efforts to ensure the sustainability of road infrastructure, which affects the road to varying degrees of premature wear and tear.
Roads and other transport infrastructures are essential for regional integration, economic growth, social development, effective public administration and security.
In sub-Saharan Africa, road transport is the most important mode of transport for passenger and freight transport and accounts for more than 80% of the total transport of goods and services, with the demand for transport rising rapidly.
The EU committed approximately 7.4 billion euros of EDF funds in this region in the period 1995-2011. o The EU's rule of law assistance to Kosovo (No. 18/2012) (see "Beginning of an economic audit").
Control of a road in Tanzania
25 ACCESSION OF ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT EU Rule of Law Assistance to Kosovo Kosovo Police and EULEX in Kosovo's border patrol © EULEX, 2011, Photo by Enisa Kasemi In its examination of EU rule of law assistance to Kosovo, the Court first highlighted a Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) mission.
Kosovo is the world's largest per capita recipient of EU financial assistance and the scene of the largest civilian crisis management operation ever launched by the Union (EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX –EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEX – EULEXEU
Court Special Report No 18/2012 addressed the question of whether EU assistance to Kosovo was effective in the field of the rule of law.
The audit focused on the four sectors of police, justice, customs and the fight against corruption.
The Court also examined coordination with other donors and the implementation of EULEX.
The examination of such a complex area was a challenge.
Four verification visits have been carried out in Kosovo.
Officials from EULEX and the European Commission were also interviewed, as were local officials, representatives of the international donor community and civil society organisations.
The audit team investigated projects of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance and Stability Instrument projects, as well as monitoring, guidance and guidance (MMA) activities carried out by EULEX.
Meetings were held in Brussels with the Commission, the European External Action Service, the Council Secretariat and NATO.
A panel of experts also assisted the Court.
The Court noted that EU aid was not sufficiently effective.
Although the EU has contributed to capacity building, especially in the customs field, the success of the assistance in the field of police and justice has been modest.
The level of organised crime and corruption in Kosovo remains high.
The judiciary continues to suffer from political influence, inefficiency and a lack of transparency and enforcement.
The limited ability to protect important witnesses within Kosovo and the difficulty of moving witnesses abroad are important shortcomings.
In the words of Gijs de Vries, the Court's member responsible for the report, the Kosovar authorities do not give sufficient priority to the rule of law, and EU aid should be more effective.
Francisco de Miguel Rodriguez, head of the audit team, says that there is no other place around the world, like Kosovo, where so many international donors could be found in such a small area for capacity building.
The Court concluded that the EU coordination mechanisms, including coordination with the international community, need to be improved.
Unlike the rest of the Western Balkans, the lack of a common EU position on independence threatens the incentive to join the EU, in the case of Kosovo.
In terms of communication, this examination took new paths.
It was the Court's most cited report in 2012: more than 130 articles in print and electronic media were published on it.
A video was also published on the Court's website which summarised the report.
This was a first for the court in which his aspiration to reach a wider audience was reflected.
The European Commission and the European External Action Service have accepted the Court's conclusions and recommendations.
The report was presented to the European Parliament and to the Council's working groups.
On the basis of the importance of his findings, the British House of Lords has decided to look into the report in detail.
26 EU INSTITUTIONS, AGENCIES AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: the administrative expenditure of the EU institutions, agencies and other bodies includes expenditure on staff (e.g. salaries and pensions) as well as on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology.
Total expenditure for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 55.9 billion and 5.7% of the total EU budget. o Effectiveness of the measures to further develop staff at the European Commission (No 10/2012) – This special report examined whether the Commission has agreed to further develop its staff to the needs of the organisation, to provide further development opportunities to its staff, to create an environment that encouraged staff to develop their skills and to apply them at the workplace.
The Commission's annual allocation for external trainers and teaching materials amounted to EUR 26.6 million in 2010. The annual investment in learning and development also consisted in 2010 of 230 000 days of staff for training activities and an equivalent of 310 staff for the management and implementation of training and career development activities. o Has the Commission and Eurostat improved the procedures for producing reliable and credible European statistics?
(No 12/2012) – This special report assessed whether the procedures for the production of reliable and credible statistics have been improved by the Commission and Eurostat.
Improvements are directly related to compliance with the Code of Conduct for European Statistics, which sets the standards for the development, production and dissemination of statistics, and with the implementation of the European statistical programme.
An evaluation of the reliability of specific statistical results did not take place.
The Court noted that the Commission and Eurostat have not yet fully applied the Code of Conduct for European statistics and that Eurostat had not conceived the European statistical programme 2008-2012 as an effective planning, monitoring and accountability tool.
Reliable and credible statistics are crucial to the performance of the tasks entrusted to the European Union.
Statistics are needed in almost all areas to formulate, apply, monitor and evaluate the tasks and objectives laid down in the Treaties and are needed to collect and allocate EU funds.
European policy decisions are increasingly based directly on statistics, and statistical indicators are increasingly used as triggers for policy decisions or sanctions. o Conflict of interest of selected EU agencies (No. 15/2012) – This special report assessed whether the selected agencies handled conflicts of interest adequately, whether there are adequate policy guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflicts of interest situations, and whether the selected agencies have adequately implemented their policies and procedures for dealing with conflicts of interest situations.
The audit assessed the policy guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflict of interest situations in the case of four selected agencies that make influential decisions affecting the safety and health of consumers.
The Court concluded that the selected EU agencies did not adequately manage conflicts of interest.
CONTINUE RECOMMENDATIONS o 2011 report on the follow-up to the Special Reports of the European Court of Auditors (No 19/2012) – This report analysed the implementation by the Commission of the recommendations made by the Court in seven selected special reports from 2003-2009.
The special reports, which were followed up, covered three budgetary areas, namely agriculture, energy and external actions.
The Court assessed the measures taken by the Commission on the basis of the Court's recommendations.
The audit revealed that the recommendations were taken into account: the Commission fully implemented 29% of the recommendations analysed, 49% were implemented, 20% were implemented, and 2% were not implemented.
For more details on follow-up measures on the basis of the Court's recommendations, see page 39.
27 In 2012, the Court published a new type of report, a special report, which follows up the implementation of the recommendations made in previous special reports.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS EN 2011 REPORT ON THE FOLLOW-UP OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS' SPECIAL REPORTS Special Reports No 19 2012 ISSN 1831-0834
28 OPINIONS AND POSITION PAPERS PROVIDED FOR IN 2012 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management through its opinions on proposals for new or amended acts with financial implications.
These opinions will be delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and will be used in their work by the legislative authorities – the European Parliament and the Council.
The opinions are available in full on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in all the official languages of the EU.
29 OPINION No 1/2012 ON THE COMMISSION'S LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS FOR THE REFORM OF THE COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY FROM 2014 The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) is to be reformed by 2013.
In October 2011, the Commission published a proposal containing the main elements of a regulatory framework for the CAP for the period 2014-2020.
The new legal framework proposed maintaining the current two-pillar structure of the CAP and thus the two existing European financial instruments of agricultural policy, namely the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
The Court recognised the efforts made by the Commission to simplify the provisions of the CAP (e.g. to avoid the different implementation models of the current single payment scheme, the introduction of a simplified scheme for small farmers).
Through its proposals, the Commission has received a number of comments from Parliament, the Council and the Court.
Nevertheless, the legislative proposals remain basically aimed at expenditure and its control, and, contrary to the stated intention, continue to comply with legislation on performance.
The Court took note of the Commission's objective of paying out CAP aid to "active farmers" and of its attempt to achieve a more balanced distribution of direct payments among the beneficiaries.
However, the Court doubted that the proposed measures could be effectively implemented without imposing an excessive administrative burden on the administrative authorities and farmers.
In his view, the solution may consist of a combination of general principles laid down in the Regulation and a systematic monitoring and expert monitoring of its implementation by the Commission.
He noted that the so-called ‘covering' (fixing of the aid which exceeds a certain ceiling) would have a limited impact on the redistribution of the aid.
This opinion had a significant impact on the future of the CAP.
More than 2,000 articles have been published in the media on this subject.
The Court was invited by numerous NGOs, agricultural trade fair organisers and other industry forums to present the opinion to the audience, and the European Parliament invited representatives of the Court to participate in working groups on the subject.
Members of the European Parliament have included most of the recommendations in their own legislative proposals.
The legislative package will be voted on after the adoption of the multiannual financial framework.
30 COOPERATION WITH OTHER BIRTH BIRTH ACCOUNTING ACCOUNTING AUTHORITIES The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCBs) mainly in the following fora: o Contact Committee of the SAIs of the EU Member States; o Network of the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries; o International organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
Meeting of EU Liaison Officers in Rome, April 2012 Meeting of the INTOSAI Subcommittee in Luxembourg, September 2011
COOPERATION COMMITTEE OF THE EU MEMBER STATES' COOPERATION AUTHORITIES 31 In accordance with the EU Treaty, the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies shall cooperate with each other in confidence and in accordance with their independence.
The Court works actively with the SAIs of the EU Member States within the Contact Committee.
The Contact Committee shall meet once a year with the Presidents of the EU-ORKB and the Court.
Working groups and task forces were set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2012, the Court assisted the President-in-Office of the Contact Committee (ORCB of Portugal) in the preparation and holding of the 2012 annual meeting in Estoril (Portugal) on 18 and 19 October 2012.
The meeting focused on two main issues, namely the challenges facing SAIs in preparing for the next EU financial framework (2014-2020), and recent developments in the responses to the financial crisis and the SAIs' experience in the field of audit.
At the meeting, the Contact Committee decided to set up a task force to analyse the tasks and role of SAIs, taking into account recent developments in the EU in the development of a new economic, budgetary and financial architecture and the possible impact on SAIs.
The Court is a member of this task force to report to the Contact Committee in 2013.
In addition, the Court also provided administrative support to the Contact Committee in 2012 and actively participated in the various working groups and networks.
In 2012, the Court also supported the initiative of the Euro area SAIs with a view to ensuring adequate external public financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
A common position on a proposal for a Statute on Article 30 of the Treaty establishing the Mechanism was sent to the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union in April 2012.
The final version of the Statutes is broadly in line with this common position with regard to the Audit Committee.
32 NETWORK OF THE THE EXISTING ACCOUNTS AUTHORITIES OF THE ACCOUNTS COUNTRIES AND THE POTENTIAL COUNTRIES The Court cooperates with the SAIs of the candidate countries and the potential candidate countries.
One of the main instruments for cooperation is the network of the SAIs of the candidate countries and the potential candidate countries1 with its organisational structure comparable to the Contact Committee.
This network includes regular meetings of the presidents of SAIs and liaison officers, as well as working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel audits.
In 2012, the Court supported the implementation of the work programme, which is part of the Istanbul Agreement adopted at the meeting of the Presidents of the Network in March 2011.
The President of the Court took part in the ceremony on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the Turkish Court of Auditors and paid an official visit to the Croatian Court of Auditors.
FURTHER AREAS OF COOPERATION In 2012, the Court continued its active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI.
In 2012, the Court continued to work on Objective 1 – Technical Standards – the INTOSAI as a member o of the Subcommittee for the Audit of Accounts, the Subcommittee for the Audit of Compliance with Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits; o of the Project Quality Control of Audits and the Harmonisation Project.
On Objective 2 – strengthening expertise – INTOSAI made the following contributions: o He supported the Subcommittee for the Promotion of Best Practices and Quality Assurance through voluntary peer reviews and organized the fifth meeting. o He accompanied the work of the Subcommittee "Intensified support for measures for the development of skills of the INTOSAI members of INTOSAI".
In the context of Objective 3 – the exchange of knowledge – INTOSAI, the Court has been chairing the INTOSAI Working Group on the Accountability and Audit of Disaster Assistance since 2008.
In 2012, the Working Group carried out the following work: o It prepared and prepared the five draft International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI), which form the new 5500-5599 series of guidance for the assessment of disaster relief, and prepared it for public discussion. o It worked on a draft INTOSAI Good Governance Guidelines (INTOSAI GOV) on an integrated financial accountability framework for 1 In February 2013, a candidate country (Croatia), five candidate countries (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and two potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina) were part of the network.
All five ISSAIs and INTOSAI GOVs will be submitted to the next INTOSAI Congress for adoption in 2013.
In 2012, the Court also took the following steps: o It held the fourth meeting of the Steering Committee of the INTOSAI Committee for the Exchange of Knowledge, chaired by the SAIs of India. o It continued to contribute to the INTOSAI Working Group on the Environment. o It took part in the joint meeting of the INTOSAI Working Group on Government Debts and the Task Force on the Global Financial Crisis – Challenges for the SAIs.
The Court continued its participation in the IntoSAINT project, a self-assessment tool for SAIs, which, under the auspices of INTOSAI, is being managed by the SAIs of the Netherlands.
In 2012, the Court's representatives moderated a week-long workshop to the Norwegian Court of Auditors on the self-assessment of integrity. As regards EUROSAI, the Court (after being appointed member of the Bureau) took part in XXXIX in 2012.
The Court o attended the 10th annual meeting of the EUROSAI Environmental Assessment Working Group and contributed to the joint review of adaptation to climate change presented by the Court on behalf of the Working Group at the 2012 meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC); o participated in the first meeting of the EUROSAI Task Force on Audit and Ethics and participated in the Task Force's activities.
In the context of the joint conferences of the regional INTOSAI working groups, the Court played an active role in the VIIth Conference of EUROSAI and the Latin American and Caribbean Organization of the Supreme Audit Institutions (OLACEFS), which focused on the role of the SAIs in promoting good governance in the public sector.
33 4th meeting of the INTOSAI Committee Steering Committee for the Exchange of Knowledge in Luxembourg, September 2012
34 OUR MANAGEMENT: A STRATEGY FOR THE PERIOD 2013-2017 The Court adopted and published its strategy for the period 2013-2017 in 2012.
The Court's objective for this period is to maximise the value of the contribution the Court makes to the EU's public accountability.
The main priorities for achieving this objective are: o to focus the Court's products on improving EU accountability; o to cooperate with other actors to enhance the Court's contribution to EU accountability; o to develop as a professional audit body; o to make the best use of the Court's wealth of knowledge, expertise and expertise; and to demonstrate the Court's ability to perform and perform its accountability.
The Court will use its unique powers and views, knowledge, expertise and partnerships, which it has built up during the 35 years of its existence, to, o make a positive contribution to future developments in the EU's governance mechanisms, policies and financial management; o help the other parties involved in the accountability process at EU level to identify the risks to EU accountability and to make easier use of audit results; o strengthen its professionalism by contributing to the development and application of new audit standards and best practices; o further streamline the processes for producing its reports and opinions; o improve its performance and the accountability framework, in accordance with the EU institutions and SAIs; o implement budgetary discipline measures, in accordance with the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, including the need to shorten the establishment plan during the financial framework of this strategy.
During the period 2013-2017, the Court will focus its reports, opinions and comments on the following issues: (i) strengthening public accountability and audit arrangements; (ii) improving financial management and reporting on the implementation of the EU budget and its impact; and (iii) improving the way in which EU policies and spending programmes are designed.
EXCHANGE IN THE HOFE'S COLLECTION Pursuant to the Treaty, the term of office of the members of the Court is six years and the term of office of the members of the Court can be reappointed.
In 2012, five new members of the Court were appointed: Henrik Otbo (Denmark), Pietro Russo (Italy), Ville Itälä (Finland), Kevin Cardiff (Ireland) and Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain).
REworked Code of Conduct for the Members of the Court In February 2012, the Court adopted a new Code of Conduct for Members, which takes account of the changes that have occurred since the adoption of the previous Code eight years ago.
In addition, the Court is now publishing the declarations of interest of its members on its website, which will make a significant contribution to transparency. 35
36 MEASUREMENT DATA ON THE PERFORMANCE OF THE OF THE HOFE CONCLUSION OF THE STRATEGY 2009-2012 In 2008, the Court published its first strategy.
This strategy was applied for the period 2009-2012 and aimed to maximise the impact of the Court's audits and to increase efficiency through the best possible use of resources.
Overall, the Court succeeded in implementing its strategy in 2009-2012.
The Court's recommendations were largely accepted: according to the Commission, about half of the recommendations issued in 2011 were implemented, and the Court's key institutional addressees were satisfied with its annual and special reports, the quality of which was assessed to be good and improved by external experts, and the Court was able to increase the number of staff in the audit chambers by 60 in efficiency gains (501 in 2008 compared to 564 in 2011), and to reduce the number of administrative and translation staff by 40.
For the 2009-2012 strategy period, the Court set out a set of key performance indicators, for the purposes of: o informing management of progress in the implementation of the objectives; o supporting the decision-making process; o providing performance-related information to the audience.
The key performance indicators are used to measure core parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, taking into account the position of key stakeholders and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources.
As 2012 was the last year of the 2009-2012 strategy period, the results of the key performance indicators, if available, are presented for every four years.
The Court will update the key performance indicators to be applied in the 2013-2017 strategic period, in order to reflect its new or revised priorities and to demonstrate its performance and accountability as a professional audit body.
QUALITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE HOFES The Court evaluates the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of assessments by the addressees and by experts.
ASSESSMENT BY ADRESSETS By means of a survey, the Court asked the main addressees of its reports (European Parliament Budgetary Control Committee and Council Budgetary Committee) to assess the quality and impact of the 2011 and 2012 annual reports.
The assessment was based on a five-level scale (1 – very bad, 2 – bad, 3 – appropriate, 4 – good, 5 – very good).
4.5 4.0 3.5 3.9 4.2 4.0 4.2 105% of the target ASSESSMENT OF THE ASSESSMENT REPORTS OF THE HOF BY THE HAUPTADRESSATEN 37 2009 2010 2011 2012 Result target The result remained stable throughout the period with a value between 3.9 and 4.2 on the five-stage scale.
It shows that the main addressees of the Court's reports are the average quality and effect of the reports for "good".
In 2012, the Court achieved a result of this indicator, which was five percent higher than the target.
38 EXPERT REVIEWS Each year, independent external bodies have reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of the Court's reports.
In 2012, the reviewers assessed eight special reports and the 2011 annual reports.
They assessed the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "high quality" (4).
3.5 3.0 2.5 3.0 2.8 3.0 106% of the 2011 2012 target 4.0 3.5 3.0 FEEDBACK OF THE IMPORTANT PURPOSES OF THE IMPORTANT PURPOSES 3.7 3.7 3.6 97% of the target 2.8 REVIEW OF THE COURT'S REPORTS BY EXPERTS 2009 2010 3.5 2009 2010 2011 2012 Result Target Outcome Target Outcome The result was between 2.8 and 3.0 on the four-stage scale between 2009 and 2012 and shows that the Court's external experts assessed the quality of its reports as "satisfactory".
The reviews have provided the Court with valuable information on the quality of its reports and the recommendations of the reviewers are used for further improvements.
FEEDBACK OF THE MAJOREST OF THE TESTED STAGES Feedback from the main audited bodies on the quality and impact of the audit carried out by the Court in 2012 has been obtained on the basis of a survey and assessment scale on the basis of which the assessment by the addressees has been carried out.
The results on the five-tier scale for the period 2009-2012 ranged from 3.5 to 3.7. The results show that on average, the most important audited bodies evaluate the Court's audits as "good."
Overall, the results of the assessments carried out between 2009 and 2012 by the addressees are positive and indicate that the main addressees of the Court value the quality and impact of the reports.
ACTIVITIES RECOMMENDED The Court uses its audit experience primarily in the form of recommendations made in its reports in order to contribute to the improvement of financial management.
In order to make changes, the Court's recommendations must first be accepted by the audited bodies and then implemented.
The farm therefore measures both parameters.
100 % 90 % 80 % 94 % 2009 94 % 2010 93 % 2011 Target 98 % 109% of the 2012 target OF THE APPROPRIATE RECOMMENDATIONS RECOMMENDED BY THE HOFE BY THE APPROPRIATE INSTRUMENTS IN 2009-2012 The acceptance rate of the Court's recommendations by the audited bodies was between 93% and 98% between 2009-2012.
The target set for this indicator has been exceeded every year.
In 2011, the Court started the systematic monitoring of the implementation of its recommendations, taking into account that the implementation of some recommendations may take a lot of time due to their scale or complexity.
According to the Commission statistics, at the end of 2012, 63 % of the almost 500 recommendations submitted in the period 2009-2012 were implemented.
More than half of the recommendations made in 2011 have already been implemented.
100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 35 % After 1 year 56 % After 2 years 73 % After 3 years 76 % After 4 years OF RECOMMENDED RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE HOFES 39
40 EFFICIENCY AND EFFICIENCY OF RESOURCES The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its resource use according to its ability to provide reports and audit findings on time, to fulfil its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff.
REPORTING REPORTS The Court monitors the effectiveness of its reporting process by comparing the number of reports planned for the year with the number of reports adopted and by checking whether these reports have been adopted within the deadlines for each of them.
100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 79 % 2008 91 % 2009 90 % 2010 83 % 2011 93 % 103% of the 2012 target 100 % 90 % 70 % 60 % 2008 67% 2009 80 % 2010 Outcome 75 % 73 % 81 % of the 2012 target NUMBER OF REPORTS ADOPTED BY THE HOF ON THE NUMBER OF ORIGINAL REPORTS Outcome Target Target This indicator has been measured since 2008 and the number of reports actually adopted measured by the number of reports originally planned ranged from 79 % to 93 %.
The measurement has shown that most of the annual targets have been achieved but that further improvements are possible, in particular in the preparation of special reports.
The punctuality of the reports has also been measured since 2008.
The dates for the annual reports and the special annual reports set out in the legislation are the basis for the performance measurement and the relevant deadlines for the special reports are set in the relevant planning documents.
NUMBER OF REGISTRATION REPORTS OF THE HOFES 2011 2012 Objective
The result ranged from 67% to 73% between 2008 and 2012, thus remaining below the 90 % target set for this indicator.
The main reasons for this were an ambitious planning for the special reports and unpredictable events in the audit process.
The Court notes that while the accuracy of the planning of audit assessments and the efficiency of audit implementation can be further improved, during the period 2008-2012, not only did it succeed in significantly increasing the number of special reports issued, but also in increasing the period during which they were drawn up to the target of 18 months.
In the period 2008-2012, 85 special reports were adopted (compared with 51 special reports in the period 2003-2007) and the average lead period was reduced from 25 months in 2008 to 20 months in 2012.
The Court's 2013-2017 strategy includes a new initiative to further streamline reporting to improve reporting punctuality and efficiency.
FUNCTIONALITY OF THE TEST TESTING TESTS The Court uses the audit reports to confirm the factual accuracy of the specific audit findings by the audited bodies.
Thus, audit statements are an important stage in the audit process.
In accordance with the Court's internal rules, audit reports should be drawn up within two months of the relevant audit visit, with an annual assessment of the extent to which that deadline has been complied with.
70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 54 % 58 % 61 % 90 % of the 2012 target 27 % 2008 2009 2010 2011 Outcome of the objective PUBLICITY OF HOFE's AUDIT SECURITY 43 % The Court has found that there is a significant need for improvement in the preparation of the audit communications in terms of punctuality.
When the Court started the measurements in 2008, it set two targets for the punctuality of audit notifications, namely the improvement of performance by 10 percent per year and the assurance that 80% of the audit notifications will be produced on time by the end of 2012.
The result for this indicator ranged from 27% to 61% for the period 2008-2012.
Although performance has improved significantly and the annual targets have largely been met, 2012 results are still below the long-term target of 80%.
The Court will continue to seek to achieve even better performance in this area. 41
42 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court seeks to obtain a full audit opinion from its independent auditor on the annual accounts and resources used and discharge from the European Parliament on the basis of a favourable Council recommendation.
The Court has received an annual discharge from the independent auditor for the discharge of the Court's financial management for April 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011 and for the discharge of the European Parliament for the implementation of the budget for the management of the Court's financial management.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING In line with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide the auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training.
7 6 5 4 3 5.7 6.1 days 4.0 2009 5.2 104% of the target FORCE EDUCATION PER VERTIA 2010 2011 2012 Result Target 7 6 5 4 3 5.7 6.1 days 4.0 2009 5.2 104% of the target FORCE EDUCATION PER VERTIA 2010 2011 2012 Result Target
Seminar on automatic translation procedures, January 2012 In the period 2009-2012, on average, one auditor of the Court accounted for 5.3 training days per year.
If language courses are taken into consideration, an average examiner accounts for 10.6 training days per year.
The target set for vocational training has been met every year since 2010.
PEOPLE'S PEACE The Court conducted internal surveys in 2009 and 2012 in order to measure the satisfaction of its employees.
Two indicators were derived from this survey, namely the percentage of employees generally satisfied with their work, and the average level of employee satisfaction overall.
A scale of 1 to 4 was used, each of which indicates general satisfaction over 2.5.
TOTAL ROAD OF WRITERS ROAD OF WRITERS WITH THEIR WORKS OF PEACE 100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 4 86 % 86 % 3 2 2.8 2.8 2009 2012 Result 2009 2012 Results These two surveys were very similar: 86 % of employees were generally satisfied with their work and a value of 2.8 was achieved with the overall level of employee satisfaction.
The results can therefore be considered good.
1 43 44 SUPPORT FOR AUDIT ACTIVITIES PERSONAL RESOURCES PERSONAL SUPPORT The Court's most important capital is its employees.
At 31 December 2012, the Court's staff amounted to 887 staff (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 573 are in chambers of examination (including 123 in the cabinets of the members).
In 2012, the best possible use of resources was again explored and implemented for all activities of improving efficiency through the simplification of procedures.
Impaired posts released from the audit area through efficiency gains have, where possible, been transferred to the audit service and to the President's services.
This increased the number of posts in the audit area by 14.4% since 2008, while the total number of posts approved to the Court increased by only 3.5%.
The output has increased significantly over the same period (see page 9).
45 Distribution of the Court's posts on 31 December 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Examination 501 525 557 564 573 Translation 163 163 151 148 143 Administration 173 171 157 148 139 President's services 20 21 24 27 32 TOTAL 857 880 889 887 887 TERMS The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
The Court also provides an opportunity for a limited number of university graduates to work together in a number of fields such as men and women, such as the other EU institutions, in the management of human resources and in recruitment, and a policy of equal opportunities.
After a continuous increase in the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now reached a nearly balanced proportion of women and men among its employees.
At the end of 2012, the Court adopted an action plan on equal opportunities, aimed at achieving a more balanced proportion of men and women at all levels of the institution.
In 2012, the Court hired 78 employees: 50 officials, 11 temporary staff and 17 contract staff.
The number of vacancies has been close to 3% since 2011 (on 31 December 2012 28 vacancies were vacant).
46 The following graphs show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2012.
The proportion of women at AD level reached 40% in 2012 and is likely to continue to grow in the future, as 46% of employees in the AD5 to AD8 level, after the last recruitment waves, are women.
Of the 69 directors and heads of departments, 21 (30%) are women, corresponding to the development of recent years.
Most of them are employed by the Directorate for Translation and the Administrative Services.
Assistants – Secretaries (Functional Group AST) 2011 2012 2011 2012 ALTERSPROFIL Men 33% 33% Women 67% 67% Directors and Head of Auditor – Administrators (Functional Group AD) Men 2011 72% 2012 70% Women 28% 30% Men 61% 60% Women 39% 40% The age profile of the staff in active employment on 31 December 2012 shows that 60% of the Court's staff are 44 years of age or younger. ALTERSPROFIL Men 63% 33% Women 67% 67% 67% 67% Directors and Head of Auditors – Administrators (Functional Group AD) Men 2011 72% 2012 70% Women 28% 30% Men 61% 60% Women 39% 40% 40% 40% The age profile of the staff in active employment on 31 December 2012 shows that 60% of the Court's staff are 44 years of age or younger.
20-24 0.1 % 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 One third of directors and head of unit are 55 years of age or older.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING The occupation of the examiner requires continuous training in order to keep pace with new developments and to acquire new skills.
Furthermore, due to the particular circumstances of the audit environment of the Court, the auditors need good knowledge of foreign languages.
In 2012, the Court staff (auditors and other staff) completed on average 8 days of professional training (9.3 days in 2011).
Language courses accounted for 52% of the total number of days of further education (compared to 54% in 2011).
Translation is an audit support activity which enables the Court to fulfil its mission and to fulfil its communication objectives.
In 2012, the translation volume reached a peak of 158,861 pages, which was 11 % higher than in 2011.
More than 99% of the translations were completed on time.
Information technology is a major contribution to the effectiveness and efficiency of the Court.
2012 was a successful year: o In the area of knowledge management, the Court's first version of the new audit support instrument (ASSYST2) was set up and a pilot phase was launched in a audit area.
In addition, a first knowledge network (Community of practice) on the subject of financial crisis was supported by the provision of information technology and content. In 2012, the content of the training was improved and new courses were developed to meet the priorities in the audit area.
In addition, the establishment of a new paperless system and the development of e-learning enabled more efficient management of the training activities.
TRANSLATION INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY The Court's Translation Directorate also provided linguistic support to auditors in the Member States' audits and the subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
It also supported INTOSAI working groups and met other specific needs related to the audit activities of the Court. o The automation of administrative processes was actively pursued through the introduction of ECAdemy to support the Court's training policy, through the decentralisation of time recording, saving personnel resources, and through the complete digitisation of personnel files. o It was a great success to move the Court's data centre to the new K3 building.
The commissioning of the new building was also accompanied by a new telephone system and a new data network. 47
48 MANAGEMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE In 2012, the Financial and Support Services Directorate continued to provide: (a) provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mission and fulfil its strategic objectives, and (b) ensure that the necessary financial, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all the Court's activities.
In order to provide the farm staff with a safe, comfortable and ergonomic working environment, and to ensure that all the farm staff working in one location, a second extension building was commissioned in 2003.
The yard took the building down in November 2012, and the first moves took place before the end of the year.
In 2012, the Directorate's activities were even more efficient and economical.
In October 2012, the Court's office in Brussels was moved to another location.
It is now located in the MTS (Montoyer-Science) building in Rue Montoyer 30/ Rue de la Science in Brussels.
REFERENCE REFERENCES OF THE K3 BUILDING The K3 building was completed on time, in accordance with quality regulations and within the financial framework.
Supplementary work will be carried out in 2013 in the other buildings in the courtyard.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union.
The Court's budget accounts for around 0.1% of total EU expenditure and 1.72% of total administrative expenditure.
This staff and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution* 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions Title 1 – Total Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure Final appropriations Commitments Use of the commitments in % Payments in 1 000 Euro 49 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET 2012 14 592 92 335 4 148 3 802 2 972 117 849 13 785 89 015 3 810 3 512 2 879 113 001 10 703 9 508 963 612 685 1 843 24 344 137 345 94% 96% 92% 92% 97% 96% 99% 99% 99% 96% 99% 13 557 88 836 3 758 2 604 2 148 110 903 7 009 4 524 294 499 748 13 764 124 667 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution 20 – Building 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212 – Total of the 8 meetings and of the meetings and of the delegation 214 – Members of the staff operating and of the institution 244 24 8 – Meeting of the members of the staff
50 In 2012, the overall budget implementation rate was 96 %.
For Title 1, this rate is 96%, the lowest in Chapter 14 (Other staff and external services) and Article 162 (Services) of Chapter 16 (Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution) (92%).
For Title 2, the average execution rate is 99%.
The amount of payments charged to Chapter 20 (buildings) depends on the work of the second extension of the courtyard (K3 building).
The fourth tranche of EUR 3 million of funding for this project was entered in the 2012 budget, which was committed and partially paid out in 2012.
The remaining amount of the funds for the K3 building was transferred to 2013 and is to be used to finance the contracts awarded by the project manager on behalf of the Court to construction companies.
Construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of EUR 79 million, which will be financed in five consecutive years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 6 million in the years 2012 and 2013.
2013 BUDGET The 2013 budget shows a slight increase of 0.2% compared to 2012.
BUDGET Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution* 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 14 566 97 772 4 176 3 700 2 728 122 942 8 327 7 197 830 413 768 2 284 19 819 142 761 14 592 96 487 4 173 3 802 2 682 121 736 9 941 6 501 837 525 793 2 144 20 741 142 477 2013 in EUR 1 000 2012 in EUR 1 000 51 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution Title 2: Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 20 – Building 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 23 – Other operating expenses Title 1 Total 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications Total of the European Court of Auditors Title 2 Total * This chapter covers the services and remunerations and expenses and ancillary expenditure for temporary staff and staff and temporary expenses for former members.
52 AUDIT AND ACCOUNTS EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE COURT The Court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important example of the Court applying the same principles of transparency and accountability to itself as to the bodies it audits.
The auditor's audit report – PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL – on the Court's financial statements for the financial year 2011 was published in October 20122.
REVIEW RESOURCES OF THE INDEPENDENT OF THE INDEPENDENT FINAL AUDIT AUDIT IN 2011 TO THE THE ANNUAL FINAL FINAL OF 2011 ‘We believe that the annual accounts give a true picture of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2011 and of the financial performance and cash flows for the year ending that reference date in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the above Council Regulation as well as in the accounts rules of the European Union (EC accounting rules).'
Commission Decision 2012/437/CFSP of 22 October 2012 on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community on the European Economic Community and the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the conclusion of the Agreement on the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation and on the Swiss Confederation and the Swiss Confederation on the Swiss Confederation and on the European Economic Area (OJ L 315, 18.10.2012, p. 18).
53 DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE REFERRED REFERRED TO IN DECLARATION The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation that the information contained in this report is correct and accurate, and in his capacity as authorising officer, that the funds provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes provided and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and of the appropriate handling of charges and suspected fraud.
This sufficient security shall be based on the assessment of the undersigned and on the information available to the undersigned, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers by subdelegation, the internal auditor's reports, as well as the audit reports of the independent auditor on previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 7 March 2013 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
54 35 YEARS IN THE SERVICE OF A BETTER FUNCTIONING OF THE EU The European Court of Auditors has been the external auditor of the EU for 35 years. It provides continuous added value for the financial management of the Union and ensures public accountability for the use of taxpayers' money.
The Court was founded at a time when the European Community (the forerunner of the European Union) was developing towards more democracy and became more accountable to its citizens.
Two important steps were the enlargement of the European Parliament's budgetary control powers and the full financing of the European Community's budget from its own resources.
The Community recognised the need for an independent external auditor to assist Parliament and the Council in ensuring the democratic control of finances.
Mr Heinrich Aigner, Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, who, since 1973, has been strongly in favour of an external audit body at Community level, opposed the initiative leading to the establishment of the European Court of Auditors by the Treaty of Brussels on 22 July 1975.
The Court began its activities in October 1977, with its headquarters in Luxembourg.
Hans Kutscher, then President of the Court of Justice, acknowledged the Court as the Community's financial conscience.
With the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty on 1 November 1993, the Court of Justice acquired the status of a fully-fledged European institution, guaranteeing its independence and authority as an equivalent institution.
The Maastricht Treaty has also introduced what is now a core product of the Court, namely the DAS (Déclaration d'assurance) on the accounts of the EU and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts.
The Court's role was strengthened with the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam on 1 May 1999, with the aim of strengthening the Court's independence and extending its audit powers to other policy areas.
The Treaty of Nice of 1 February 2003 confirmed the principle that the Court should be a member of each Member State and stressed the importance of the Court's cooperation with national audit bodies and that the Court should be given the possibility of giving itself a chamber structure.
Since its establishment, the Court has consistently promoted cooperation with the Member State's supreme audit authorities in the audit of EU funds, in particular through its involvement in the EU's Presidents' Contact Committee.
In its role as SAIs, the Court also sought to help shape developments in the field of public sector audit by working with other SAIs in the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and its EUROSAI regional group to define technical standards and best practices.
The Court was early on on on the peer review procedure as an instrument for the development and dissemination of best practice within the SAIs' Community.
During its 35th anniversary, the Court sought to contribute to the improvement of EU financial management by presenting high-quality products reflecting the EU's developments and the changing needs of its users.
Over the past 35 years, the EU has taken in new Member States, given new powers and created new institutions at EU level – all of which the Court had to take into account in its work.
As a result, the Court's output has increased significantly compared to the two opinions it issued in the first year of its activity.
The Court's products today include annual reports, special reports, statements of assurance, special annual reports, opinions and position papers.
The number of outputs has increased to 87 publications in 2012.
For a number of years, the Court has given a higher priority to examining the results achieved in the implementation of EU policies and to providing guidance to improve economic efficiency.
Like the EU, the Court has developed.
Based on nine members and 120 employees in 1977, the Court now has 27 members and almost 900 employees.
Like the Union itself, the success of the Court depends on close cooperation between members and employees from all the countries of Europe.
The Court is proud that since 1977 it has been able to build up a dedicated, professional and experienced staff, to promote the protection of the financial interests of the citizens.
In the coming years, the Court will devote itself to contributing to the improvement of accountability of the funds allocated to the achievement of the objectives to citizens.
55 Members of the Court's First College, November 1977
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2012 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2013 – 55 pp. – 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 WHERE DO I get EU publications? Free Publications: • via the EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at European Union representations and delegations.
QJ-AA-13-001-EN-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu http://eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorsECA EUAuditorsECA ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS DE 2014 Activity Report
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 E-mail: eca-info@eca.europa.eu Internet: http://eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorsECA Youtube: EUAuditorsECA A great deal of additional information on the European Union is available on the Internet. It can be accessed through the Europa server (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2015 Print ISBN 978-92-872-2134-6 ISSN 1684-0666 doi:10.2865/062938 QJ-AA-15-001-EN-C PDF ISBN 978-92-872-2130-8 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/751281 QJ-AA-15-001-EN-N EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-213-0 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/14686 QJ-AA-15-001-EN-E © European Union, 2015 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. Printed in Luxembourg
In memory of our colleague Henrik Otbo, member of the Court, who unexpectedly died on 1 February 2015, Henrik Otbo was born in 1949 and had Danish nationality.
From 1995 to 2012, he was President of the Danish Court of Auditors and from 1 March 2012 he was Member of the European Court of Auditors of the CEAD Chamber (coordination, evaluation, quality assurance and development) with special responsibility for audit development and evaluation.
His lifelong commitment to public financial control, in particular his leading role in the establishment of International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions as Chairman of the INTOSAI Committee for Technical Standards, was particularly valuable to the Court, his former colleagues to the Danish Court of Auditors and the entire audit sector.
01 European Court of Auditors 02 Mission The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, it contributes to the improvement of EU financial management, promotes accountability and transparency, and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of EU citizens.
Mission Statement An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, distinguished by its integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism, quality and impact, and providing valuable support to its audience for improving EU financial management.
Values Independence, integrity and impartiality Professionalism Added value Excellence and efficiency Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its staff.
Non-partisan examination, which takes account of the views of the the Court's addressees, but rejects any form of influence by means of instructions or external pressure.
Maintaining an exemplary level of professionality in all aspects of his work.
Active participation in the further development of public financial control at EU and worldwide level.
To produce relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound evidence and evidence, taking into account the concerns of its district, and including important and indicative statements.
To contribute to the effective improvement of the EU financial management and to the strengthening of the accounting obligation for EU financial management.
Promote team spirit through effective communication.
Content 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4-5 President's Preface 6 2014 at a Glance 6 Our Activities 6 Our Management 7-43 Our Activities 7-36 Audit Reports and Other Products 37-38 Relations with Addressees 39-41 Cooperation with Other Supreme Audit Institutions 42-43 Key Events 44-50 Our Management 44-46 The College of the Court 47-50 Measuring the Court's Performance 51-59 Support for Audit Activities 51-54 Staff Resources 55-56 Support Services 57-58 Financial Information 59 Audit and Accountancy 60 Statement by the Authorising Officer by delegation
Foreword by President 04 Dear reader, 2014 was a year of profound change for the EU and its finances.
The EU entrusted the European Central Bank with the responsibility for the oversight of the major banks in the euro area.
It was the first year of the new multiannual financial framework relevant to the implementation of the EU budget for the period 2014-2020.
The elections of Members of the European Parliament and the replacement of the top positions in the Council and in the European Commission were also of particular importance. The European Court of Auditors (EuRH) also welcomed six new members.
In 2014, our institution produced 91 reports, opinions and other products – more than ever before.
They are the result of our audits of the accounts, compliance audits and the audits of the economy, which include the audits that fall within the scope of our new responsibilities with regard to financial and economic governance.
They contain a number of important findings, conclusions and recommendations to improve the financial management and accountability of the EU in the 2014-2020 programming period.
Some of its key messages are contained in this annual activity report.
We also aim to provide our audience with the widest possible possible knowledge of the main challenges facing the EU in the financing and implementation of its policies, based on our audit experience.
To this end – and to contribute to this time – we introduced a new product, the so-called "Landscape-Analyses", in 2014, to contribute to this, a new and new time, marked by innovation.
In addition, at the request of the European Parliament, we have published an overview of the results of our audit of the accounting and compliance procedures of the agricultural and cohesion expenditures of the period 2009-2013.
The Court also works with its addressees to ensure that the addressees can make the most of the results of its work.
Among others, the Court appointed in 2014 a member in charge of institutional relations and a speaker.
It also organised several events to provide a forum for exchanges with high-level stakeholders from the EU and the Member States.
This conference brought together a large number of people in charge of managing and controlling EU funds, including Members of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Supreme Audit Institutions and representatives of the scientific community.
The vice-president of the European Parliament and former EU Commissioner Olli Rehn gave a preliminary speech.
A visit to Lithuania by a delegation of members of the Court of Auditors, meeting with Members of Parliament, members of the government and representatives of the National Court of Auditors and the Lithuanian Central Bank, should also be highlighted.
Preface of President 05 Throughout the year, our 2013-2017 strategy has been groundbreaking for our work and for the actions taken to reform our institution.
In 2014, we shortened the average time we needed to prepare our special reports, and we reduced the number of our staff, as required by an interinstitutional agreement.
We also made fundamen for future efficiency and effectiveness gains by launching an internal reform project.
This project coordinates the implementation of the recommendations of internal working groups and the recommendations of the independent, external peer review on the practice of our economic assessment and the European Parliament's report on the future role of the Court.
The Court is based in Luxembourg, but our test teams travel wherever EU funds are spent, as part of their work in obtaining audit certificates.
This activity report provides an overview of the audit visits and the reports we have produced.
A special spotlight will be given to our examination of EU support for European airport infrastructure.
It is a clear example of our efficiency audits for assessing the impact and added value of EU funding, and of the Court's efforts to fulfil its mandate.
Furthermore, this audit demonstrates the commitment and professionalism of the Court's staff, on whose expertise and commitment the Court, in the interests of the Court, can always rely.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President
2014 at a glance 06 Our activities • Annual reports on the EU general budget and on the European Development Funds for the financial year 2013. • 51 special annual reports on the various EU agencies, decentralised agencies and joint enterprises for the financial year 2013 and two summary reports. • 24 special reports on particular budgetary or management issues, ranging from European banking supervision to EU-funded airport infrastructures. • Seven opinions and other statements on financial management issues, from the reform of the EU's own resources system to an analysis of possible savings from the integration of the European Parliament's activities at a single place. • Two landscape analyses: one on the resources requirements for accountability and public financial control in the EU and another on the risks to EU financial management. • Organising a high-level conference on accountability and public financial control in the EU. • Organising the meeting of the European Commission's Presidents of the Court of Auditors and the other on the issues of the Court's financial control.
Our management • In 2014, the court welcomed six new members: Alex Brenninkmeijer, Danièle Lamarque, Nikolaos Milionis, Phil Wynn Owen, Klaus‐Heiner Lehne and Oskar Herics.
The College of Members of the European Parliament elected Vítor Caldeira again as President of the Court for a third three-year period and appointed Ville Itälä as President of the Court for institutional relations. • The Court's 2013-2017 strategy provided impetus for changes in the organisation: the Court launched an internal reform project aimed at streamlining the audit process and ensuring a more flexible organisation of resources. • Further improvement in administrative efficiency, based on procedural simplifications and on the shift of staff working in the field of support services to the audit field.
An action plan in the area of equal opportunities has also been implemented.
Building of the Court in Luxembourg.
Our activities 07 Audit reports and other products The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: • Annual reports – with the results of its audits of the accounts and compliance audits of the European Union budget and the European Development Funds (EDF).
In addition, special annual reports on EU agencies, decentralised bodies and Joint Undertakings are published separately. • Special reports – which can be published at any time during the year, with the results of its selected audits of specific budgetary areas or management issues.
These are essentially economic assessments. • Opinions – on new or amended acts that affect the financial management and other analytical products that are produced either at the request of another institution or at the Court's own initiative.
In 2014, the farm produced more products than ever before and also introduced new products.
The annual accounts are still provided with a wide range of analytical information, and provide a comprehensive presentation of the results of our annual audits of the accounts and compliance audits.
In 2014, a greater focus was placed on economic audits so that additional knowledge on the quality of the implementation of the EU budget plan was made available to the EU budgetary authority.
In addition to the annual reports, for the first time, we published a summary of our audit results on agricultural and cohesion expenditure under shared management for the period 2009-2013, to allow for a multi-annual perspective.
Another important development was a new product called a landscape analysis.
In landscape ana-lysis, information and analyses on key issues are presented on the basis of our expertise in the audit area.
In 2014, we published two landscape analyses: the first focuses on the main challenges for the EU in terms of accountability and public financial control; the second focuses on the risks to EU financial management.
2012 2013 2014 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised bodies 50 50 51 Special reports 25 19 24 Opinions and other statements 10 6 14 Total 87 77 91 The full version of the individual audit reports, opinions and landscape analyses is available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu) in 23 EU official languages.
Our activities 08 audit visits in 2014 While most of the audit work is carried out on our premises in Luxembourg, our auditors also carry out audit visits to the authorities of the Member States, other recipients of EU funds (including at the headquarters of international organisations such as the World Health Organisation in Switzerland) and to the EU agencies and bodies.
The purpose of these visits is to obtain direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the authorisation, management and payment of EU funds, as well as from the respective final beneficiaries.
Our audit teams usually consist of two to three examiners, and the duration of an audit visit is up to two weeks depending on the type of audit and the distance.
Within the EU, our audit visits are often carried out in coordination with the Supreme Audit Authorities of the Member States visited.
The frequency and intensity of the audit work in the individual Member States and recipient countries depend on the type of audit and the results of the sample selection.
Therefore, the number and duration of the visits may vary from country to country and from year to year.
In 2014, the Court's auditors spent 4 915 days with on-the-spot audits in Member States and outside the EU, and obtained audit evidence for the annual reports and selected audit tasks (son-the-spot reports).
They also spent some time with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg and with the decentralised agencies and bodies throughout the EU.
In 2014, our auditors used fewer days on-site than in previous years.
This is due to more efficient working methods and the increasing use of technologies such as videoconferencing.
EU inspectors used EU inspectors for testing for maritime freight installations.
4 915 days on-the-spot checks
Our activities 09 days on site in 2014 Italy Poland Germany Spain France United Kingdom Portugal Greece Romania Czech Republic Lithuania Austria Sweden Hungary Netherlands Slovakia Denmark Latvia Bulgaria Belgium Finland Ireland Croatia Slovenia Estonia Malta Cyprus Luxembourg Rwanda India Norway United States Algeria Cambodia Morocco Seychelles South Africa Switzerland Zambia Côte d Netherlands Mozambique Democratic Republic of the Congo Fiji Thailand Belize Tunisia Colombia Georgia Indonesia Lesotho Nigeria Serbia Cameroon Mauritania Afghanistan Israel Senegal Tanzania Madagascar Turkey 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
Our activities 10 Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013 Most of its audits of accounting and compliance audits were devoted by the Court during 2014 to the implementation of the EU budget for 2013.
The 2013 Annual Report was published on 5 November 2014 and presented to our audience, including the European Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the European Union (Economy and Finance), national parliaments and governments, and the media.
The aim of the annual report is to help the European Parliament, the Council and the citizens to assess the quality of EU financial management by presenting findings and conclusions.
The core element of the 2013 annual report is the 20th Annual Statement of Assurance ("DAS"), on the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions.
That report provided more information on the efficiency of EU expenditure and on the Commission's performance reporting.
Estimated error rate for the EU budget: 4.7% President Caldeira at the handing over of the annual report for the financial year 2013 to the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz.
Our activities 11 The key statements of the Annual Report 2013 ο The Court has issued a full audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts of the European Union for 2013.
Total revenue for 2013 was legal and correct, including commitments. ο The payments for 2013 were largely flawed.
The Court has therefore delivered a failed opinion on its legality and regularity.
This figure is close to the error rate for 2012 (4.8%) and is consistently above the materiality threshold of 2 %. ο The two spending areas for regional policy, transport and energy with an estimated error rate of 6.9% and rural development, the environment, fisheries and health with an estimated error rate of 6.7%.
In the case of shared management as a whole, the estimated error rate was 5,2 %. ο Overall, the monitoring and control systems examined – with significant differences between the Member States – ensured the regularity of the payments.
As in 2012, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors in a large part of the error-related operations in the areas of shared management before the Commission had requested a refund. ο Correction and recovery by the Member States' authorities and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Without these measures, the estimated overall share would have been 6.3%. ο For the use of EU funds, absorption would have been the priority of the programming period 2007-2013 (use it or lose it – non-use of waste) and compliance with the legislation and not a good performance.
This lack of focus on performance is a crucial weakness in the way in which a large part of the EU budget is built.
Our activities 12 Examination of transactions in each EU expenditure area – Results for 2013 Amount verified and most likely error rate 6,9 % 3,6 % 3,1 % 6,7 % 4,6 % 2,6 % Agriculture expenditure: market support and direct payments Examination conclusion Regional policy, transport and energy Employment and social rural development, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external aid and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 1,0 % Essentially error-related Non-essentially error-related 0 10 billion € 20 billion € 30billion € 40billion € 50billion € % Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on quantifiable error detected in the statistical sample of transactions) Table from the EU 2013 short information on the audit of the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
Our activities 13 Agriculture and Cohesion: An overview of EU expenditure for the period 2007-2013 In parallel with the annual reports, the Court for the first time published a background document, in 23 official EU languages, in order to provide a multi-annual perspective on the findings underlying the Statement of Assurance in the two main areas of expenditure on agriculture and cohesion.
It drew lessons on problems encountered in EU financial management and control in the past period of expenditure, summarising audit results, and on challenges related to the new period of expenditure 2014-2020.
In addition, it complied with the European Parliament's wish to obtain country-specific information on shared management with this overview, with the key words: 'Except for direct aid and market support measures for farmers in the agriculture sector, the pressure to make use of the funds is a key aspect of the risk of shared management expenditure.' The main risks to the regularity of agricultural expenditure are that the areas or animals or the costs on which the aid payments are based are not eligible, that the beneficiaries of the aid do not meet the conditions and that the aid is not calculated correctly.
Infringements of agri-environmental requirements, specific requirements for investment projects and public procurement rules are important factors which increase the risk of spending on rural development. ο Infringements of EU and/or national public procurement rules are the biggest risk of cohesion spending.
The second second risk is that expenditure (or projects) is not eligible for EU funding. ο Although control systems require significant improvement, the main challenge is to take action to simplify the management of the programmes.
The Court notes errors in all EU Member States.
Many errors have occurred due to the complexity of the overall architecture for management and control. ο Despite improvements in the reporting of risks and errors by the authorities of the Member States, it remains very difficult for the Commission to ensure the reliability of this information. ο The changes to the regulations for the new programming period may not have a significant impact on the level of risk.
Our activities 14 Annual Report on the European Development Funds for 2013 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are financed by the EU Member States and are subject to their own financial regulation and are managed outside the EU's general budget.
The European Commission is responsible for the financial management of operations financed from EDF resources.
Under the EDF, under the Cotonou 2000 Agreement, the European Union grants funds for development cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) and the overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
Expenditure is aimed at reducing poverty and ultimately defeating it, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the ACP States and OCTs into the world economy.
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars: development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension.
The Court's 2013 annual report on the EDFs was published on 5 November 2014 in part on the annual report on the EU budget.
It contains the 20th Statement of Assurance on the EDFs.
The Court noted that the annual accounts of 2013 represent the financial position of the EDFs, the results of their operations and cash flows, and the changes in the net assets as a whole.
The Court estimated the error rate in EDF expenditure operations for the financial year 2013 to be 3,4 %, which is an increase compared to 2012 with a rate of 3,0 %.
Special annual reports on the financial year 2013 In 2014, the Court issued and published 51 special annual reports on the financial year 2013.
The reports covered the 41 decentralised bodies, executive agencies and other EU agencies, the seven EU Joint Undertakings active in the field of research, the European Central Bank, the European Schools and the Sisnet communication infrastructure.
The Court also published two summaries with an overview of the results of its annual audits for the financial year 2013 – one on EU agencies and other bodies, the other on the EU research community.
These two analytical and comparative summaries were submitted to the President of the European Parliament, the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, the General Affairs Council and the Council's Committee on Budgets.
Together with the special annual reports, these summaries are available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
EU agencies, bodies and joint ventures will be set up on the basis of EU legislation in order to carry out specific tasks, and their seats will be located throughout the European Union.
They are active in many areas, such as security, health, research, finance, migration and travel.
They all have a mandate, a board of directors, a director, staff and a budget.
While the agencies, bodies and Joint Undertakings, with respect to the EU budget as a whole, are at relatively low financial risk, the risk of reputation is high for the Union, as they are clearly visible in the Member States and have a significant impact on policy making, decision-making and the implementation of programmes in areas of major importance to the citizens of Europe.
51 special annual reports during the year
Our activities 15 The Court gave the 41 agencies and other agencies full audit opinions on the reliability of the 2013 accounts.
The procedures underlying these financial statements were legal and orderly for all agencies and other bodies except for two in all essential matters. The Court issued limited audit opinions for the EIT (European Institute of Innovation and Technology) and Frontex (European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union).
In addition, the 2013 accounts were reliable for all seven Joint Undertakings, but the Court gave a limited audit opinion for three Joint Undertakings in respect of the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying their annual accounts: Artemis (embedded ICT systems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative).
With regard to the European Schools, the Court was unable to conclude whether the consolidated annual accounts for 2013 were free of material misrepresentations, as the schools still lack accounts and control.
The Court examined the management of the European Central Bank's carbon footprint and noted that the Bank has taken measures to reduce the negative impact of its administrative activities on the environment, but that further efforts and measures are needed.
Special reports adopted in 2014 In addition to its annual reports and special annual reports, the Court publishes special reports throughout the year, containing the results of its economic and compliance audits on specific budgetary areas or management issues of its choice.
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court is committed to achieving the maximum impact and thus making the best possible use of its resources.
In selecting issues, the Court takes into account the following factors: • the risks of irregularity or reduced economic viability in the expenditure or policy area; • the potential to achieve added value in the course of the Court's audit; • the political and public interest. 24 special reports in 2014
Our Activities 16 The main stages of a selected audit audit audit planning on-the-spot audit Preparation of the report Coordination of the report Adoption Publication Determination of the expeditability and feasibility of a proposed audit; determination of the scope, objectives, approach, methods and timing of the audit Multi-disciplinary teams carry together on-the-spot audit evidence in the Commission's central services and in Member States and recipient countries Clear, structured presentation of the main findings and conclusions; preparation of recommendations Confirmation of the facts and findings of the audited bodies Adoption of the report by the audit chamber or by the entire Court College Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the audited report The following pages briefly present the topics of the Court's 24 special reports in 2014 under the relevant headings of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, the EU's multiannual budget.
Our activities 17 Smart and inclusive growth Smart and inclusive growth comprises two areas: competitiveness for growth and jobs includes funds for research and innovation, education and training, trans-European energy, transport and telecommunications networks, social policy, enterprise development, and so on.The EU funds earmarked for growth and jobs for 2014-2020 amount, at current prices, to EUR 142 billion and 13% of the total EU budget.
Economic, social and territorial cohesion includes regional policy, which aims to help the most developed countries and regions in the EU to follow the rest, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of all regions and to develop cooperation between them.
The EU funding for cohesion for the period 2014-2020 – at current prices – is EUR 367 billion and 34% of the EU budget as a whole.
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of EU funded projects in the field of public transport (No 1/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed the implementation and effectiveness of projects in the field of public transport co-financed by EU Structural Funds in order to determine whether the projects met the needs of the users and met their objectives.
The audit found that two thirds of the local transport projects co-financed by EU structural funds were insufficiently used.
This development has been primarily due to weaknesses in project design and inadequate mobility policies.
However, this inadequacy was generally not pursued by the promoters or the national authorities.
As a rule, infrastructure and vehicles have been established for most projects in line with project specifications.
Significant delays and cost differences were noted, but after completion, almost all the projects audited were in line with the needs of users.
European cities need to improve mobility and reduce congestion, accidents and pollution through local mobility strategies.
The co-financed projects supported the cities in setting up local transport systems such as metros, trams and buses.
Trams and buses are important means of transport for public transport.
Our activities 18 • Did cohesion policy funds contribute to the production of renewable energies to achieve good results?
(No 6/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether the two main sources of funding for the promotion of renewable energy, the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF), had achieved good results and examined whether funding for the period had been allocated adequately prioritised, cost-effective, and mature renewable energy production projects which had had good objectives and to what extent the funds had achieved good results which contributed to the achievement of the EU 2020 renewable energy target.
The audit found that improvements were needed to ensure that EU funding made the greatest possible contribution to the achievement of the objective.
The projects examined provided the outputs as planned and most projects were sufficiently mature and ready to be implemented at the time of their selection.
There were no significant cost overruns or major delays and renewable energy production capacities were installed as planned and were operational as planned.
However, the results in terms of energy production have not always been achieved or measured correctly.
Overall, the use of the funds was only limited, as the cost-effectiveness of the planning and implementation of the projects was not the guiding principle and expenditure had a limited EU added value.
The EU Council has set a binding EU target of 20% for the share of renewable energy in the gross final energy consumption by 2020.
In the period 2007-2013, some 4.7 million euros were made available for renewable energy from the ERDF and the CF. • Was the ERDF successful in supporting the development of incubators?
(No 7/2014) – In this special report, the Court analysed whether the incubators co-financed by the ERDF had successfully supported start-up companies with significant growth potential.
The audit found that the EU has made a significant financial contribution to the creation of incubators' infrastructure, in particular in Member States where this type of business support is relatively rare.
However, the performance of the audited incubators left too much to be desired.
The provision of business-related services was rather limited due to the financial constraints and the limited scope of the business-related activities.
This situation was mainly due to a lack of expertise in setting-up support procedures and due to a lack of administrative systems.
Incubators pursue the goal of supporting new companies in their successful establishment and further development.
Support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) has thus become an increasingly political priority over time.
EU spending in this area amounted to €38 billion in the period 2007-2013.
The building "Delta " in the Wrocław Technology Park, co-financed by the ERDF.
Our activities 19 • Is the ERDF effective in funding projects for the direct promotion of biodiversity under the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2020?
(No 12/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether the ERDF funds available for the direct promotion of biodiversity have been used by the Member States.
The audit showed that Member States are lagging behind in the use of ERDF funding to finance projects compared to other ERDF spending areas.
In order to continue to be useful to the ERDF for the implementation of the EU biodiversity reduction strategy by 2020, the Commission should help Member States to implement specific conservation and management plans for natural habitats and species.
The co-financed projects were generally in line with the biodiversity priorities set at national and EU level.
However, the assessment of the effectiveness of these projects was hampered by the fact that most Member States did not, either through performance indicators or through monitoring systems, assess the development of natural habitats and species.
The protection of biodiversity is one of the EU's most important priorities.
Following the failure of the previous target of halting the loss of biodiversity in Europe by 2010, the Council approved a new strategy for 2020. The direct promotion of biodiversity and nature conservation has been allocated €2.8 billion of ERDF funding for the programming period 2007-2013. • Has ERDF support to SMEs been effective in the field of e-commerce?
(No 20/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether operational programmes provided a good basis for the effective support of e-commerce measures for SMEs, whether the managing authorities properly selected and monitored e-commerce projects and whether the e-commerce projects co-financed by the ERDF have been successfully implemented and have provided measurable benefits.
The Court noted that ERDF support for SMEs in the field of e-commerce – purchasing and selling goods over the Internet – helped to increase the online availability of business services.
However, due to monitoring deficits, it was impossible to assess the extent to which ERDF support has contributed to the achievement of the IT objectives of the Member States and the EU.
Insufficient selection procedures by Member States mean that a good cost-benefit ratio for a large number of projects is unlikely.
Programme managers focused more on the use of the resources (outputs) than on achieving results.
The Commission is promoting e-commerce through its Digital Agenda for Europe. In the framework of the ERDF budget, EUR 3 billion of EU funds for improving the use of ICT by SMEs were allocated for the period 2007-2013. The Court's video of Special Report No 20/2014 "Is the ERDF effective in financing projects directly promoting biodiversity in the framework of the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2020?" – EU AuditorsECA on Youtube.
Our activities 20 Close-up of an economic impact assessment: EU-funded airport infrastructures – insufficient cost-benefit ratio (No. 21/2014) Closed part of the oversized terminal at Fuerteventura airport.
Although EU aviation policy aims to overcome capacity problems by building additional infrastructures, making better use of existing structures, optimising services at the airport and better connecting to other modes of transport, Europe will not be able to meet much of this demand because of the lack of runways and ground infrastructure.
In Europe, there are more than 500 airports, where one million people are employed directly or indirectly, contributing more than EUR 140 billion to Europe's economic performance, together with the airlines.
Airport-related infrastructure projects are an important part of the EU budget: projects of this nature the EU allocated some EUR 4.5 billion in the 2000-2013 programming period, of which more than EUR 2.8 billion were allocated from the Cohesion Policy Funds.
In its audit of this support, the Court examined whether the investment was clearly needed, whether the respective time and cost frameworks of the construction projects were respected and whether the newly built or modernised infrastructure was fully used.
The Court assessed whether the investment led to higher passenger numbers and improved customer service and whether the airports supported were financially viable.
The auditors carried out their work between May 2013 and October 2014, with a focus on 20 EU-funded airports in Estonia, Greece, Italy, Poland and Spain.
In total, more than EUR 600 million has been allocated to these airports for the period 2000-2013.
The team conducted an audit of the relevant legislation, air traffic planning in the five Member States and of the publications of the main interbranch organisations.
In particular, the auditors visited the 20 airports in order to assess the outputs, uses, results and impacts and the economic situation of the airports and to obtain direct evidence of this.
The Court concluded that the cost-benefit ratio for EU-funded investments for airports was not the right one.
Too many airports, often close together, received financial support for similar infrastructure, and in many cases it was found that these infrastructure was oversized.
Only half of the airports audited managed to increase their passenger numbers.
Improvements in customer service or regional socio-economic benefits, such as the creation of additional jobs, have not been measured or evidence has not been provided.
The investigation also revealed that seven airports were not financially self-supporting and would have difficulties not having any further public support.
At most of the airports audited, the audit team found significant delays in the construction and provision of infrastructure.
Nearly half of airports exceeded costs, so that Member States had to contribute almost 100 million euro more from their national budgets than originally planned.
Our activities 21 The funding was not well coordinated by the Member States: in most Member States there was no strategic long-term airport development plan.
In addition, the Commission has inadequately monitored the financing, which is generally not known which airports receive funding or which amounts are involved.
As a result, it does not have a complete picture of all EU airport investment and has limited options for monitoring and ensuring that policies are properly designed and implemented.
On the basis of these findings, the Court recommended that the Commission, from the 2014-2020 programming period onwards, ensure that Member States only use EU funds for airport infrastructures that are financially viable and whose investment needs have been adequately assessed and demonstrated.
Another recommendation was that Member States should have coherent plans for airport expansion at regional, national and supranational level to avoid overcapacity, duplication and uncoordinated investment in airport infrastructure.
In its reply, the Commission has confirmed that lessons have been learned from this experience.
As a result, it has ensured that a fundamentally different approach has been adopted in the relevant legislation for the 2014-2020 programming period.
The report was presented to the European Parliament, which fully supports the Court's conclusions and recommendations.
The publication of the report met with great media interest.
The media reaction was highest in Spain, but also included headlines in major international newspapers, television coverage, and social media.
From left to right: Afonso de Castro Malheiro, Jasmine Mitterbuchner, Patrick Weldon, Mircea Radulescu, Pietro Puricella, Joël Costantzer, George Pufan (member of the Court responsible for the report), Fernando Pascual Gil, Luc T'Joen, Tomasz Plebanowicz, Lorenzo Pirelli, Efstratios Varetidis, Jelena Magermane, Erki Must.
Our activities 22 Sustainable growth: natural resources The EU has a high political responsibility in the fields of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for the period 2014-2020, at current prices, amounts to EUR 420 billion, or 39% of the EU budget as a whole.
Three quarters of the expenditure relates to direct payments to farmers and support for agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) – the ‘first pillar' of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
Another fifth of the expenditure is the EU support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the "second pillar of the CAP".
Agriculture and rural development are subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2014 the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • Integration of the objectives of the EU water policy into the CAP: a partial success (No 4/2014) – In this special report the Court assessed whether the objectives of the EU water policy were successfully integrated into the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
The audit showed that the EU can only achieve partial success in integrating the objectives of water policy into the CAP.
The two instruments for integrating water-related issues (cross compliance and rural development) have shortcomings and the implementation of the Water Framework Directive is characterised by delays and weaknesses.
The CAP instruments have so far had a positive impact on supporting the policy objectives of improving the quantity and quality of water.
However, these instruments are limited compared to the ambitious objectives of the CAP.
For example, neither of these two instruments allows the full application of the "polluter pays" principle in the allocation of CAP funds.
Moreover, it is not sufficiently clear at the level of the EU institutions and in the Member States what pressures the water resources are exposed to and what developments these pressures are.
The EU gives high priority to the protection of European water resources.
Agriculture, one of the largest consumers and polluters of water resources, plays a key role in sustainable water management.
For the CAP, almost 40% of the EU's budget is raised (over 50 billion euros in 2014), the EU is working under the CAP to influence the agricultural processes that have an impact on water resources.
Our activities 23 • Has the Commission managed effectively the integration of coupled support into the single payment scheme?
(No 8/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed how well the Commission managed, after the 2008 CAP health check, the inclusion of the EU support linked to production volumes (e.g. farmed land or livestock numbers) in the single payment scheme.
The audit found that the Commission did not adequately monitor in the 2010-2012 period how Member States calculated farmers' entitlements to EU support payments for agricultural holdings under the farm payment scheme.
While most Member States had correctly used the reference data of farmers, there were serious deficiencies in the correct application of the calculation rules and principles.
The Commission did not use its mandate to ensure that the criteria for the allocation of available support were always in line with the EU principles, that they were in line with the principle of sound budgetary management and that they had no potential impact on market conditions.
The Commission's framework did not provide clear enough rules on what controls Member States should carry out and Member States' control systems were of varying quality.The main objective of the single payment scheme was to shift the orientation of the CAP from market support to decoupled income support for farmers: farmers should be able to adapt their production to market demand and their income should be stabilised.
The single payment scheme, which has so far been introduced in 18 Member States, accounts for 54% of the total EU budget for agriculture and rural development. • Is EU support for investment and promotion in the wine sector well managed, and is there any evidence of results in terms of the competitiveness of EU wines?
(No 9/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the investment and promotion measures were adequately designed and the Court also assessed the available monitoring and evaluation data in order to assess whether the Commission and the Member States achieved the desired results in an efficient manner.
The audit found that the management of the support for investments and promotion in the wine sector was hampered by the lack of design and implementation and that the impact on the competitiveness of EU wines could not always be demonstrated.
The specific investment measure for the wine sector is not justified as support is already provided under the EU rural development policy.
EU support for the promotion of wines often served to consolidate existing markets rather than to develop new markets or to reconquer old ones.
The impact of the investment measure cannot easily be separated from the investment in rural development.
The EU is the world's largest wine producer.
EU support is intended to improve competitiveness and to ensure a better balance between supply and demand.
Member States spent EUR 522 million on the promotion measure and EUR 518 million on the investment measure during the period 2009-2013.
In 2014-2018, the resources allocated to Member States under this measure have increased significantly.
Our activities 24 • Effectiveness of the support for aquaculture provided by the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) (No 10/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the aquaculture support measures were well designed and adequately implemented at EU and Member State level and whether the EFF provided the appropriate cost-benefit ratio and supported the sustainable development of aquaculture.
The audit showed that the measures to support aquaculture by 2013 were not well designed and implemented at EU and Member State level, that the EFF did not achieve an adequate cost-benefit ratio and that the sustainable development of aquaculture was not effectively supported.
The current framework was not suitable for concrete implementation of the EU's objectives for the sustainable development of aquaculture and the results were not sufficient.
Measures to support the sustainable development of aquaculture in the Member States were not well designed and implemented.
The national strategic plans and operational programmes of the Member States were not sufficiently clear and the Member States did not have a coherent strategy for the sector.
The EFF funding has often not been sufficiently targeted for aquaculture projects and the audit has shown that these projects usually did not deliver the planned results or provide a good cost-benefit ratio.
Every year, around 1.3 million tonnes of fish are produced in the EU by aquaculture, with a turnover of EUR 4 billion.
One of the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) for the period up to 2013 was to promote the sustainable development of aquaculture.
By May 2013, the EFF provided more than EUR 400 million to finance measures to promote productive investment and environmental and health measures in the aquaculture sector. • Economic measures: to maintain control over the costs of EU-funded rural development aid (No 22/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether the approaches adopted by the Commission and the Member States were the most effective to control the costs of rural development aid.
The audit showed that EU Member States could achieve significant savings in support for rural development projects, while allowing for a more efficient use of funds.
The auditors identified practical and cost-effective approaches that could be more widely used in Member States' control of the cost of rural development aid.
The Member States' control systems were designed to control the prices of goods or works listed in the aid applications without the same attention being paid to the question of whether the goods themselves were appropriated.
Some price controls were time-consuming or provided little certainty that the approved costs were reasonable.
At the beginning of the programming period, the Commission did not provide sufficient guidance nor did it ensure the dissemination of recommended procedures.
It did not ensure that Member States' systems were effective, but that they were widely approved prior to such aid.
Around half of the EU rural development expenditure for the period 2007-2013, totalling EUR 100 billion, has been implemented in the form of grants for the costs of investment projects and other projects implemented by farmers, agricultural enterprises, associations and local authorities.
Our activities 25 • Errors in rural development expenditure: what are the causes and what is being done to remove them?
(No 23/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined compliance with applicable laws and other legislation applicable to the implementation of rural development and described the main causes of the high error rate in this area.
The audit found that most errors in rural development policy were due to non-compliance with conditions established at Member State level.
Member States' control authorities could and should have been able to detect and correct most of the errors in investment in rural development.
Member States' control systems are inadequate, as controls are not comprehensive and are based on insufficient information.
The average error rate for rural development expenditure over the last three years was 8.2 %.
Errors in investment measures accounted for two-thirds of the error rate, while area-related aid accounted for one-third of the error rate.
Only 16% of the error rate was due to non-compliance with the provisions contained directly in the EU regulations, while the largest proportion of the rate – 84% – was due to non-compliance with conditions at Member State level.
The EU and the Member States allocated over EUR 150 billion for rural development policy in the 2007-2013 programming period, almost equally allocated to investment and land-based aid.
These expenditures are particularly flawed. • Are EU aid for the prevention and remedying of forest damage caused by fires and natural disasters well managed?
(No 24/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) support measure for the reconstruction of forest potential and the implementation of preventive actions (measure 226) has been well managed and whether the Commission and the Member States can demonstrate that the objectives of the aid have been achieved in a cost-effective manner.
The audit showed that the funding the EU has provided for the prevention of forest fires and the restoration of forests damaged by natural disasters and fires has not been managed well enough.
The Commission and the Member States cannot prove that the results envisaged in the financial framework have been achieved in a cost-effective manner.
In the last 30 years, on average, 480 000 hectares of forest in the EU have been destroyed annually by fires.
Preventive actions accounted for more than 80% of EU funding of 1.5 million euros for the period 2007-2013.
Our activities 26 Security and Citizenship This policy area has been established to ensure the free movement of persons and to provide citizens with a high level of protection.
It ranges from the administration of the EU's external borders to judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters and includes asylum and immigration policy, police cooperation and the fight against crime.
Expenditure in this area in the period 2014-2020 is expected to be 18 million euro and less than 2% of the total budget.
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this field: • Findings from the European Commission's development of the second generation (SIS II) information system (No. 3/2014) – In this special report the Court examined why the Commission provided SIS II more than six years later than planned and costed eight times more than originally estimated.
It was assessed whether there was a viable business case for SIS II for the entire duration of the project, taking into account major changes in costs and expected benefits.
The audit found that the delays and excessive costs were due to weaknesses in management by the Commission.
The initial deadline was unrealistic and the Commission was unable to effectively manage the main task for development before 2009.
In the initial cost estimates, the actual level of investment required was significantly underestimated.
The total cost of SIS II was EUR 189 million, which was originally estimated at EUR 23 million.
The Commission did not fully demonstrate that SIS II provided it with the best cost-benefit ratio.
However, it has gained lessons from its experience during the first phase of the project, and has already used some of these lessons for other large-scale IT projects.
The Schengen Information System is used by border protection, police, customs, visa and judicial authorities throughout the Schengen area.
It contains information (an alert) on persons who may or may not have been involved in a serious crime or who have the right to enter or reside in the EU.
It also includes calls for tenders for missing persons and lost or stolen property. • The External Borders Fund contributed to more financial solidarity, but results must be improved and additional EU added value created (No 15/2014) – In this Special Report, the Court assessed the effectiveness and EU added value of the External Borders Fund and assessed the extent to which the objectives of the co-financed projects and programmes have been achieved.
The audit showed that the External Borders Fund contributed to the management of the external borders of the EU and to increased financial solidarity between the Member States.
However, its additional EU added value was limited and the overall results could not be measured due to weaknesses in the monitoring by the competent authorities and serious deficiencies in the assessments at the Commission level and at the level of the Member States.
Member States' programmes were not embedded in national border control and visa policies and contained neither SMART targets nor measurable indicators.
Project selection procedures have not ensured that the actual needs of the Member States have been met.
Unfinished procurement procedures in the Member States pose a risk to the sound management of the budget.
In the Member States most affected (Greece, Spain, Italy and Malta, too, in the first years of support), the Fund's management was seriously weak.
The EU's main financial instrument to support the management of external borders was the External Borders Fund, which was endowed with EUR 1.9 billion for the period 2007-2013.
Its overarching objective was to support current and future Schengen States in ensuring uniform, effective and effective controls at their common external borders.
Our activities 27 Europe in the world The EU's external relations activities focus on: enlargement, the achievement of stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood, active support of sustainable development at international level, the promotion of global political governance, and the securing of strategic and civil security.
The EU has allocated EUR 66 billion for the period 2014-2020 – at current prices – or 6 % of its planned total expenditure for these objectives.
Expenditure is managed by the Commission mainly directly through its central services or delegations.
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • The establishment of the European External Action Service (EEAS) (No 11/2014) – In this special report the Court examined whether the establishment of the EEAS has been adequately prepared, whether its resources have been efficiently prioritised, organised and allocated, and whether it has been effectively coordinated with the Commission and the Member States.
The audit identified the need for the EEAS to increase its efficiency and to do more for the EU and its citizens.
The establishment of the EEAS was speedily and was not prepared well enough.
Inefficiencies in prioritisation, organisation and allocation of resources reduced its efficiency.
Coordination between the EEAS and the Commission was only partially effective, mainly due to the lack of effective coordination mechanisms and the lack of a rigid financial and administrative framework at the level of delegation.
Coordination with Member States can be further developed to exploit synergies in the area of information exchange or common accommodation and to improve consular services, including the protection of EU citizens.
The EEAS has its headquarters in Brussels and has a worldwide network of 140 delegations.
For 2014, the EEAS had a budget of EUR 519 million, divided between headquarters (41%) and delegations (59%). • EU rehabilitation assistance after the earthquake in Haiti (No 13/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether the EU's rehabilitation assistance in the country was well-designed and adequately implemented, and whether the Commission ensured a proper link between emergency aid and rehabilitation and development.
The audit found that the EU's rehabilitation assistance after the 2010 earthquake in Haiti was overall well-designed and focused on the country's urgent needs, but that the programmes were not implemented effectively enough and that the link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development was not enough.
Most of the programmes audited had the output of the programme on schedule or the delivery of the programme was on the horizon, although almost all of the programmes had been delayed.
While the Commission was aware of the difficult situation, it has not adequately addressed a number of the major risks that threatened the implementation and achievement of the programme objectives.
The programmes have been monitored, but the Commission and the EEAS have not taken timely action to increase the resources of the EU Delegation in Haiti.
In March 2010, 55 donors pledged $5.4 billion for 2010-2012 for rehabilitation and development and a further $3.0 billion for 2013 and beyond.
The EU was one of the most important donors with a commitment of a single amount of 1.2 billion euros.
Our activities 28 • Effectiveness of combining financial assistance from regional investment facilities with loans from financial institutions (mixed financing) to support EU foreign policy (no. 16/2014) – This special report dealt with the establishment and management of the investment facilities, and examined whether mixed financing had achieved the desired benefits.
The audit has shown a positive view on mixed financing, i.e. on combining financial aid from regional investment facilities with loans granted by financial institutions in support of EU foreign policy in terms of structure and overall effectiveness, but the Court also points to a number of key issues that need to be addressed urgently.
While the facilities were well-structured, the potential benefits of mixed financing were not fully realised due to shortcomings in the Commission's management of the facilities.
In nearly half of the projects examined, there was insufficient evidence that the grants were justified.
In some cases, investments would probably have been made without the EU contribution.
The Commission should ensure that the allocation of funds is based on a thorough and documented assessment of the added value of achieving the objectives of the EU's development, neighbourhood and enlargement policies.
Since 2007, the Commission has created eight regional investment facilities.
These combine financial assistance from the EDF and the EU's overall budget with loans from mainly European development finance institutions.
Mixed funding is usually intended to exploit investment opportunities in the form of large infrastructure projects that could be financially viable but for which sufficient resources could not be mobilised in financial markets. • Can the EU Initiative of the Centres of Excellence contribute effectively to the containment of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) risks that originate outside the EU?
(No 17/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the initiative was based on a sound analysis of the situation existing before 2010, whether the organisational structure of the initiative was appropriate to address the identified challenges, and whether there was an appropriate administrative system and whether it was applied.
The Court's assessment was generally positive as regards the contribution of the Centres of Excellence to the reduction of CBRN risks.
The initiative is in line with the priorities set in the framework of the European Security Strategy and the EU Strategy against the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction.
It provides for the participation of all of the stakeholders in the partner countries in order to improve the sustainability of the measures taken.
The organisational structure is generally appropriate, but its complexity has contributed to the delay in the start-up of project activities.
The Excellence Centres initiative is aimed at establishing regional platforms in different regions of the world in order to counteract CBRN risks.
It is the largest individual measure of the long-term component of the Instrument for Stability and has been allocated a budget of EUR 100 million for the period 2010-2013.
Our activities 29 • EuropeAid for evaluation and results oriented monitoring (ROM) systems (No 18/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether these systems are reliable, whether their structure and resources are adequate, and whether they ensure that relevant and meaningful findings are made and that the findings are of maximum benefit.
During the audit, the Court made a critical assessment of the reliability of these systems.
The evaluation and performance-oriented monitoring bodies are well organised, but more attention should be paid to the efficient use of resources.
The systems do not provide sufficient information on the results achieved and do not ensure that the findings are made as much as possible.
The evaluations of projects and programmes organised by the Commission delegations and carried out in partner countries are not managed satisfactorily: the overall monitoring is not appropriate, there is uncertainty about the level of resources used and there is a lack of access to the results.
Two key elements of the European Commission's European Commission's European Commission's framework of accountability for the evaluation and the results-oriented monitoring of the results are their systems.
The total annual cost of the schemes is estimated at 34 to 38 million euros.
The annual development expenditure covered by these systems is estimated at around EUR 8 billion. • EU pre-accession assistance to Serbia (No. 19/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined the effectiveness of the Commission's management of pre-accession assistance to Serbia in the period 2007-2013, assessing its support to the key area of governance.
Together with other forms of support, the resources provided by the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) helped Serbia implement social and economic reforms and improve public financial management.
On the basis of the experience gained with other IPA beneficiary countries, the Commission is increasingly focusing on governance issues in the planning of financial and non-financial assistance to Serbia.
The Commission has effectively managed non-financial assistance to Serbia in the areas of governance and the fight against corruption.
As regards Serbia's preparations for the decent management of EU funds, the Commission has also provided effective support, but only in the limited area of the IPA administrative structures.
A quarter of the IPA funding for Serbia has been channelled into governance, which, according to the Commission, has the greatest challenges for Serbia.
The EU complements the IPA fi nancing with a number of non-financial resources to help Serbia prepare for EU membership.
Our Activities 30 Administration The administrative expenditure of the EU institutions, agencies and other bodies includes expenditure on personnel, salaries and pensions, and on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology.
The planned budget for the period 2014-2020 – at current prices – amounts to EUR 70 million and to 6% of the total EU budget.
In 2014, the Court adopted the following special report in this field: • How do EU institutions and bodies calculate, reduce and compensate their greenhouse gas emissions?
(No 14/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the EU institutions and bodies had strategies to reduce the impact of their administrative activities on the environment and whether these strategies had been effectively implemented.
In the report, the Court called on the EU institutions and bodies to develop a common policy approach to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 footprint).
The introduction of the eco-management and audit system is slow and the available information on the actual level of emissions is incomplete.
Few bodies and bodies systematically use environmental procurement.
While EU institutions and bodies have managed to reverse the trend of increasing greenhouse gas emissions associated with energy consumption in their buildings, there were no clear trends in the reduction of emissions from other sources of emissions, such as missions, in the light of the available data.
More than half of the EU's audited institutions and bodies had not set any quantified targets for reducing their emissions.
EU environmental policy aims at a high level of protection.
The Treaty (TFEU) requires that environmental protection requirements be included in the definition and implementation of Union policies and measures to promote sustainable development.
Our activities 31 revenue/own resources Own resources are the revenue of the EU to finance its expenditure.
There are three types of own resources: traditional own resources (customs duties applied to imports from outside the EU, production levies on sugar), own resources based on VAT and own resources derived from GNI (the largest source of revenue of the EU budget).
In 2014, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: • Will preferential trade arrangements be managed appropriately?
(No 2/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the Commission assessed the economic impact of preferential trade arrangements appropriately, and whether the controls effectively ensure that imports were not incorrectly subject to preferential duties, with the result of a loss of EU revenue.
The audit found that, while the Commission has improved the quality of its impact assessments over time, the economic impact of preferential trade regimes has still not been sufficiently analysed.
The EU escapes revenue due to weaknesses in Member States' customs controls: these controls do not prevent certain imports from being unduly subject to preferential customs duties.
Through unilateral preferential trade arrangements, the EU grants preferential treatment to developing countries in order to offer them duty-free access to the EU market and thus contribute to the eradication of poverty and to the promotion of sustainable development.
In 2011, the value of the goods imported into the EU under preferential trade arrangements was more than EUR 242 billion, representing 14% of imports into the EU.
Our activities 32 Financial and economic governance The European Union's framework for economic governance aims to prevent and correct problematic economic developments, such as excessive government deficits or debt levels, which can inhibit growth and expose the sustainability of public finances to risk.
In 2014, the Court adopted its first special report in this area: • The European Banking Authority is taking shape – EBA in a changing environment (No 5/2014) – In this special report the Court examined whether the Commission and the European Banking Authority (EBA) have exercised their responsibilities in a satisfactory manner in the establishment of new regulatory and regulatory and supervisory arrangements in the banking sector and how effectively these arrangements have worked.
The audit showed that the Commission-led reform of banking legislation and the establishment of EBA were the first major responses to the financial crisis.
EBA has laid the foundations for a new regulatory and supervisory system for the banking sector.
The identified weaknesses related to cross-border banking supervision, the assessment of the resilience of EU banks and the promotion of consumer protection.
In connection with the implementation of the 2011 stress test, which was carried out at EU level without financial protection measures, the EBA had only a limited legal mandate and scarce human resources.
Although the 2011 stress test resulted in the recapitalisation of many banks, it also made it clear that such stress tests could be restricted if they were not accompanied by an assessment of the quality of the overall assets.
Questions remain as to the future role of the EBA in banking supervision as well as the respective roles and responsibilities of the EBA and the ECB.
As a result of the financial crisis, the Commission has launched measures to stabilise the banking sector, aimed at strengthening the regulatory framework and banking supervision, in particular in the case of cross-border banks.
In the course of the detailed proposals for regulatory changes, EBA was set up in 2011.
EBA plays a role in overseeing European banking regulation and consumer protection.
Our activities 33 Opinions and other statements adopted in 2014 The Court's opinions on proposals for new or amended acts with financial implications help to improve EU financial management.
These opinions will be delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and will be used by the legislative authorities – the European Parliament and the Council – in their work.
The Court may also, on its own initiative, issue position papers and analyses on other issues.
At the Court's initiative, the European Court of Auditors' position on the Commission's report on the fight against corruption was presented, while the study on possible savings in the EU budget was carried out by pooling the European Parliament's activities in a single place at the request of the European Parliament.
7 comments in 2014
Our activities 34 Landscape analyses The year 2014 was marked by profound innovations for the European Union.
Against the background of this change, the Court has designed and created a new product: the Landscape Analysis.
On the basis of the Court's work and its wealth of knowledge and experience, each analysis will cover a wide range of topics.
The analyses should serve as a basis for consultation and dialogue with the Court's address group and should help the Court to present comments on important issues, which are not subject to review.
The first Landscape Analysis, published in September 2014, addressed issues relating to EU accountability and public financial control rules (see box), which was the main basis for the EU accountability conference which took place in October 2014 (see page 42).
The second analysis entitled The optimal use of EU funds: A landscape analysis of risks to EU financial management was published in November 2014.
It provides an overview of the EU's financial flows and a summary of the issues to be addressed, inter alia, to ensure that EU taxpayers can be offered a better cost-benefit ratio to the EU budget (see box).
The opinions and landscape analyses are available in full in 23 official EU languages on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
2 2 Landscape analyses in 2014
Our activities 35 gaps, overlaps and challenges: A landscape analysis of EU rules on accountability and public financial control This landscape analysis aims to raise awareness of an issue of utmost importance for the democratic legitimacy of the EU's institutional system, and to give impetus to the discussions on this issue.
It describes the main features of a framework of accountability, the role of public financial control, the key elements of a sound chain of accountability and financial control, and six key areas where challenges in terms of accountability and public financial control at EU level exist, and analyses the accountability and financial control arrangements in relation to the various new EU and intergovernmental instruments developed in response to the financial crisis.
Making optimal use of EU funds: a landscape analysis of risks to EU financial management At a time when Member State governments and taxpayers want to see a higher benefit from the resources they contribute, this Landscape analysis summarises the Court's comments on all aspects of EU financial management.
Based on the Court's 35-year experience in the audit of EU revenue and expenditure, this Landscape Analysis provides an overview of EU financial management and a summary of the issues to be addressed in order to ensure a better cost-benefit ratio with the EU budget.
This analysis is complemented by detailed data sheets on the main characteristics and issues linked to the different areas of revenue and expenditure, and suggestions for improvements are made.
Our activities 36 The analysis identifies a number of key points which deserve special attention: ο overly complex eligibility schemes and other conditions for EU support which make it difficult to understand, manage and control and lead to different interpretations; ο rules and procedures for public procurement that are not always complied with – either intentionally or because they are not properly understood – and which lead to higher costs or delays for EU funded projects; ο insufficient capacity for national authorities to manage and disbursement EU funds that increases the risk of errors and the risk of low quality of expenditure; ο poor coordination of EU budget and national budgets; lack of funds for co-financing by Member States; and a greater emphasis on the compliance with the rules than the achievement of results; and ο a high volume of commitments from the previous period of expenditure to be financed from the EU budget.
Accountability framework for the management and financial control of the EU European Parliament and Council (MS) European audit Court of Auditors European Commission and managing authorities of the MS chart of the Landscape analysis of the EU rules on accountability and public financial control.
Reporting on accountability: transparency Responsibility for the implementation of the EU budget under the Treaties Reporting on audit: independent, objective information Assessment mandate under the Treaties
Our activities 37 Relationships with the addressees The value of the Court's contribution to the EU's accountability obligation depends to a large extent on the benefits of its key partners in the accountability process from its work results and its products.
These partners are the political bodies responsible for public oversight of the use of EU funding (i.e. the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments).
Through its 2013-2017 strategy, the Court is required to step up its preparations to monitor external developments and to actively shape relations with its partners.
The President and the members of the Court shall maintain regular contacts with the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control.
In 2014, President Caldeira attended two meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and a number of plenary meetings of the European Parliament.
This included the presentation of the annual work programme and the annual reports.
The Court's strategic objectives include strengthening the partnership with its main stakeholders, including the various specialised committees of the European Parliament and the Council.
In April 2014, the Court transferred the newly created function of the member responsible for institutional relations to Ville Itälä, which helped to strengthen our institution's relations with other EU institutions with a strategic perspective and to increase the opportunities for a greater impact with our work.
In 2014, further Court members, in conjunction with the Court's annual reports and special reports, were in the presence of the Committee on Budgetary Control, in 17 meetings 64 times.
The resulting discussions resulted in reports drawn up by individual members of the Committee on Budgetary Control on special Court reports, including a draft report on special reports related to the 2013 discharge procedure.
In 2014, the Committee on Budgetary Control started to systematically invite the specialised committees to the ideas of our Sonderberichte at its meetings, thus contributing to the increased impact of our work.
In early 2014, the European Parliament adopted a report on the future role of the European Court of Auditors.
The Court welcomed the view expressed in this report that any reform should be considered in the wider context of the challenge of improving the EU's accountability.
This applies in particular to the Court's work, its relations with the addressees and its use of resources.
The progress made in relation to these issues was highlighted in the 2014 peer review report (see "Important events").
Our activities 38 In many cases, the Court has already launched a series of initiatives to improve the implementation of its 2013-2017 strategy, including streamlining the audit and reporting process and the more flexible organisation of resources.
This led to more reports being drawn up in the course of the year and the average time needed to do so was reduced.
Further efficiency gains and increased effectiveness of the audit process are expected from the internal reform project launched in 2014.
In a resolution adopted in November 2013, the European Parliament asked the Court to present a comprehensive analysis of the potential savings to the EU budget that would arise if the European Parliament had a single seat, taking account of the savings that had been made due to a reduction in the loss of working time and due to greater efficiency.
The Court presented the outcome of this work in July 2014 and concluded that a move from Strasbourg to Brussels could lead to a significant increase from Luxembourg to Brussels due to an additional move.
In 2014, the Court continued the regular cooperation with the Council in its various configurations and activities.
President Caldeira presented the annual reports to the ECOFIN Council in December 2014 and the Court was regularly invited to present special reports to the various Council committees and working groups.
Ensuring effective relations with national parliaments is another priority for the Court.
The committees of the national parliaments responsible for European affairs and financial control are regularly informed of the Court's activities.
During the year, delegations from several national parliaments visited the Court, including the visit of a delegation from the French Senate in July 2014.
In addition, the Court invited the main addressees to the annual seminar of its members in December 2014 in order to present their views on the challenges of accountability in the EU.
The Court works with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to fight fraud to the detriment of the EU budget.
It shall forward to OLAF any evidence of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity, to the detriment of the EU's financial interests, to which it is subject or which it is informed by third parties, by the examination carried out by it.
In 2014, the Court informed OLAF of 16 cases in which fraud, corruption or illegal activities were suspected in the course of the audit work.
Our activities 39 Cooperation with other Supreme Audit Institutions The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCBs) mainly in the following fora: • contact committee of the SAIs of the EU Member States; • network of SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • international organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the international organisation of the Supreme Audit Authority (INTOSAI) and its European regional group (EUROSAI).
In September 2014, the Court revised and updated its international cooperation strategy (see box).
EUROSAI Congress, The Hague, June 2014.
Court's Strategy for International Cooperation The Court's Strategy for Cooperation, in line with its overarching strategy for 2013-2017, aims to make the greatest possible contribution to the EU's public accountability, in particular through enhanced bi- and multilateral cooperation with relevant partners, such as national Supreme Audit Institutions and international audit organisations.
As the Court's audit obligations cover areas that are pan-European (e.g. fiscal governance) and global (e.g. climate change) impacts, our international cooperation activities are even more important than in the past.
The Court's cooperation strategy has the following priorities: ο Cooperation at EU level within the Contact Committee and individual cooperation with the SAIs of the EU Member States will continue to be the main priorities.
This may include participation in joint audits and joint work on accountability relevant to the EU budget and other EU policies. ο In the context of EU enlargement, the Court will continue to support the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries in their work on the development of relevant competences. ο As a member of international audit organisations such as INTOSAI, the Court will increase its participation in cooperation activities on the definition of technical standards, as this organisation is of great importance to the development of expertise and the exchange of knowledge in the public financial control sector.
Through its cooperation strategy, coupled with other recent actions, such as the newly established high-level conferences and meetings, the Court will help raise awareness of EU financial management and accountability.
Our activities 40 Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States Under the EU Treaty, the European Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies cooperate with confidence, while respecting their independence.
The Court actively cooperates with the SAIs of EU Member States within the Contact Committee, including an annual meeting, and the various working groups, networks and task forces set up to address specific issues of common interest.
In October 2013, the Court took over the chair of the Contact Committee for a year.
As chairman, the Court hosted the annual meeting of the Contact Committee, which took place in October 2014.
The main agenda items included a seminar on strengthening cooperation, in particular in areas related to the Europe 2020 strategy and the Banking Union, reporting on the activities of the Contact Committee and its professional partners, and audits carried out by the Contact Committee members on EU-related matters.
The Court also cooperates with the SAIs of the EU Member States on a bilateral basis.
A good example of this is a project jointly carried out by the Court and the SAIs of Poland, Najwyższa Izba Kontroli, in which the auditors of the Polish SAIs actively participated in our audit work in Poland on the eradication, control and monitoring of animal diseases.
In addition, in the context of the Chapter on Results of the 2014 Annual Report, the Court cooperates with the SAIs of Poland and Portugal on Europe 2020.
Meeting of the Contact Committee in Luxembourg on 15-17 October 2014.
Our activities 41 Network of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Candidate Countries and the Potential Candidate Countries Cooperation between the Court and the SAIs of the Candidate Countries and the potential candidate countries is primarily carried out through a network similar to the Contact Committee1.
During 2014, the Court assisted the network in carrying out a parallel energy efficiency efficiency efficiency efficiency efficiency efficiency efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiency efficiency efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiencies efficiency efficiencies
International organisations for public financial control bodies In 2014, the Court continued to contribute comprehensively and actively to the activities of INTOSAI and INTOSAI to various committees and working groups: • under Objective 1 of the INTOSAI as a member of the Technical Standards Committee and as a member of the Sub-Committee for Auditing Accounting, the Sub-Committee for Auditing Legal Standards and the Sub-Committee for Auditing Economic Accounting, • under Objective 2 of the INTOSAI as a member of the Committee for the Development of Technical Skills and the Sub-Committee for Promoting Best Practices and Quality Assurance through Voluntary Peer Reviews; • under Objective 3 of the INTOSAI as a member of the Committee for the Development of Knowledge and Environmental Audit and the Working Group for Financial Modernisation and Regulation Reform.
He also attended the XLI. and the XLII. meeting of the EUROSAI Bureau to which he has been a member since 2011, and the Court continued to play an active role in EUROSAI's working groups, in particular the IT and environmental audit work groups, the monitoring committee for the establishment and operation of the audit quality electronic good practice database, and the audit and ethics task force.
The Court also joined the newly established working group on Disaster Aid.
In the framework of the joint conferences of INTOSAI regional working groups, the Court took an active part in the second joint ASOSAI2-EUROSAI conference, the focus of which was on the lessons learned from the experience of the adoption of the ISSAI3, and its implications for the future.
1 In January 2015, the network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and a potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina).
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has been participating as an observer in the network. * This designation does not affect positions on the status and is in line with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and with the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence.
2 Asian Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (Asian Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions).
3 International standards for Supreme Audit Institutions.
Our activities 42 Key events International expert review of the Court In 2013, the Court asked the SAIs of France, Germany and Sweden to carry out peer review of their practice of economic assessment.
The peer review was based on the experience of all three partners and was a very useful exercise for both the court and the peer reviewers.
The methodology was based on generally accepted criteria for the work of SAIs and was based on the guidelines set out in international standards.
The peer review was published on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu) in 2014.
The peers concluded that the Court had made considerable progress since the last peer review in 2008.
The Court had examined the challenges posed by the complex institutional framework of the EU and had taken a number of steps to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of its audits and the quality of its audit reports.
International auditing principles encourage the implementation of international peer reviews.
They allow Supreme Audit Authorities to obtain a voluntary assessment of the performance of their tasks based on international standards.
In 2014, the Court headed the peer review of the Supreme Audit Authority of Lithuania and was asked to review the Swiss Federal Financial Control and participate in peer reviews of the SAIs of Spain and Latvia.
High-level conference on improving accountability in the EU From left to right: Jacques Sciberras, Head of the Cabinet, Kevin Cardiff, Member of the Court, President Vítor Caldeira and EP Vice President Olli Rehn.
In October 2014, the Court organised a high-level conference to which a large number of people were invited to ensure that the European Union complied with its accountability with regard to the public funding used to achieve its objectives.
The conference focused on the gaps, overlaps and challenges at EU and Member State level identified in the Court's Landscape Analysis on EU accountability and public financial control rules (see page 35).
The conference provided an opportunity for discussion among participants, including members or representatives of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Court, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Stability Mechanism, the national Courts of Auditors and the scientific community. It discussed how these arrangements should be developed in response to developments in economic, budgetary and monetary integration.
The focus was on accountability within the EU, in particular on central banks and supervisors, post-crisis structures, increasing the leverage of EU funding through external participation and increasing the focus on the EU's performance.
The conference participants agreed that there was a need for greater cooperation between governmental authorities, parliaments and auditors at EU and Member State level in order to provide the public with a better picture of the achievements of EU policies and programmes.
Our activities 43 Strengthening partnerships with national authorities in Lithuania A high-level delegation from the Court visited Lithuania in September 2014 in order to strengthen partnerships with Parliament, the Government, the Central Bank and the SAIs in the country and to promote the best use and control of EU expenditure there.
The Court and its partners in Lithuania exchanged views on the priorities for improving EU accountability and on how they can best contribute to the added value of EU spending through their cooperation and help policy-makers and Parliament in Lithuania to make the best use of the Court's audit results.
During the visit, the Court delegation took an active part in the Lithuanian Parliament's conference on the challenges in the area of accountability and audit of the public sector.
In addition, the delegation and its partners discussed issues relating to financial and economic governance and the benefits of Lithuania's accession to the euro area on 1 January 2015.
Lithuania was the first of a number of EU Member States the Court intends to visit in the coming years in order to strengthen partnerships with the national authorities responsible for managing and controlling EU funds.
Our Management 44 The College of the Court The College of the Court is composed of one member from each Member State.
The term of office of the members of the Court shall be six years in accordance with the contract, and the term of office of the members of the Court shall be renewable.
Members are assigned to one of five chambers.
The boards adopt audit reports and opinions and take decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues.
In addition, each member is responsible for his or her own tasks, which are primarily audit-related tasks.
The audit work is carried out by the Court's auditors and is coordinated by the competent member, assisted by his cabinet.
The Member shall then present the report for adoption by the Chamber and/or by the whole College of the Court and later the report to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested parties, including the media.
In accordance with the proposals of its Member States and after consulting the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union appointed six new members of the European Court of Auditors in 2014.
Four of these members – Alex Brenninkmeijer (Netherlands), Danièle Lamarque (France), Nikolaos Milionis (Greece) and Phil Wynn Owen (United Kingdom) – welcomed the Court on 1 January, two others – Klaus‐Heiner Lehne (Germany) and Oskar Herics (Austria) – were welcomed on 1 March 2014.
On 23 January 2014, the 28 members of the Court of Auditors again elected Vítor Caldeira the President of the Court for a third three-year period.
The President shall be responsible for supervising the performance of the Court's mandate and shall represent the institution outside the Court.
Members of the Court at the end of 2014.
Meeting of the Court's members on 27 October 2014.
Our Management 45 Igors LUDBORŽS Latvia Lazaros S. LAZAROU Cyprus Henrik OTBO († 1.2.2015) Denmark Doyen EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 31 December 2014 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Portugal Chamber I - Preservation and management of natural resources Doyen Rasa BUDBERGYTrise Lithuania Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Karel PINXTEN Belgium Doyen Milan Martin CVIKL Slovenia Jan KINŠT Czech Republic Kersti KALJULAID Estonia Augustyn KUBIK Poland Kevin CARDIFF Ireland Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Oskar HERICS Austria Doyen Doyen Doyen BALKO Slovakia Szabolcs FAZAKAS Hungary Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria George PUFAN Romania Phil WYNN OWEN United Kingdom Klaus-Heiner LEHNE Germany Louis GALEA Malta Pietro RUSSO Italy Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA Spain Neven MATES Croatia Alex BRENINKUMYER Netherlands Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Industry - Czech Republic (THHHVHV) Ireland) Greece and Ireland - President of Industry and Industry and Industry Belgium Poland - Denmark.
Our management 46 Court strategy for 2013-2017: progress achieved in 2014 was the second year in which the Court implemented its strategy for the period 2013-2017.
The aim is to maximise the value of the Court's contribution to the EU's public accountability.
In order to achieve this objective, the Court shall, in the first place, prioritise the following priorities: ο to focus the Court's products on improving the accountability of the EU; ο to cooperate with other actors to strengthen the Court's contribution to the accountability of the EU; ο to develop the Court as a professional audit body; ο to make the best use of the Court's knowledge and expertise and expertise; ο to demonstrate the Court's performance and accountability.
In 2014, the strategy initiated a major overhaul of the Court's organisational structure.
Two internal working groups dealing with the strategy ("Strengthening the audit process", and "Improving the definition of tasks and responsibilities") presented their results.
This coincided with the European Parliament's report on the future role of the European Court of Auditors and the results of the peer review procedure to which the Court has subjected itself.
The various recommendations were summarised in a far-reaching reform project, whose implementation started at the end of 2014 and will last until mid-2016.
In the case of special reports, this means that they are to be produced in a shorter time, and in the case of the annual report, greater focus and resource savings are sought.
Two things are to be done to transform the farm into a task-based organisation.
This will make it better able to make targeted use of resources for those audits and analyses that provide the greatest added value for EU citizens.
Our Management 47 Measuring the Court's performance Since 2008, the Court has been applying central performance indicators (ZLI) to inform management of progress towards its objectives, support the decision-making process and provide information to its addressees on performance.
The CSOs reflect the Court's priorities and reflect its performance and accountability as a professional audit body.
The indicators are used to measure core parameters for the quality and impact of the Court's work, taking into account the points of view of key addressees and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources.
The ZLI have been updated for the period covered by the 2013-2017 strategy.
Appraisal by addressees Applicability of reports Probable impact of reports Quality and impact of the Court's work The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of assessments by the addressees and by experts.Another assessment criterion is the actions taken on the basis of its recommendations to improve EU financial management.
In addition, the court measures its media presence.
Assessment by addressees The Court has asked its main addressees – the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Council's Committee on Budgets, the main audited bodies of the Commission and the EU agencies and the Presidents of the EU Committee on Budgetary Control – to assess the relevance and impact of its reports published in 2014 on the basis of a five-tier scale of "very high" to "very low".
2 100 % very low 13 56 25 4 13 53 25 9 0 % 20 % very high 40 % 60 % high medium low The replies show that 94% of the key addressees consider the value of the ECA reports to be relevant to their work (2013: 98%). 91% consider that the Court's work has an impact (2013: 94%).
Our management 48 expert reviews Each year, independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of Court reports to assess the quality. In 2014 the reviewers assessed eight special reports and the 2013 annual reports.
They assessed the quality of different aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "substantially impaired" (1) to "high-quality" (4).
Review of Court reports by experts The very consistent results in recent years indicate the satisfactory quality of Court reports.
100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 10 % 4 3 2 1 0 2,8 3,0 3,1 2011 2012 3,0 3,1 2012 2013 2014 Follow-up of recommendations The recommendations made in its audit reports are a key instrument for the Court to contribute to improving EU financial management.
Some recommendations can be implemented quickly, while others require more time due to their complexity.
At the end of 2014, 69 % of the nearly six hundred recommendations formulated by the Court in the period 2011-2014 were implemented.
This represents an increase in the implementation rate of 60% in 2013 for the recommendations made in the period 2010-2013.
91% 65% 58% 60% 2014 2013 2012 2011 Quality assessment
Our Management 49 Media Presence The indicator relating to the Court's media presence reflects the Court's effect in the media.
It concerns the strategic objective of raising awareness of the Court, its products, its audit findings and conclusions.
In 2014, the Court identified more than 5 100 online policies based on its special reports, the annual reports 2013 and the institution in general.
40 % of these covered audit reports, while in the other articles reference was made to the institution and its work in general.
Over 800 articles have been published on the Special Report on the EAFRD Airports Implementation of the work programme The Court plans its audits and other tasks on the basis of the annual work programme and monitors progress during the year.
In 2014, the Court carried out 95% of the tasks of its work programme (90 % in 2013).
While the work on the annual reports and on specific annual reports was carried out on schedule, this was the case for the special reports for 85% (2013: 70%).
The economic audits that were not completed in 2014 were carried over to 2015.
Media Reference Topics 29 11 60 0 % 20 % Special Reports 40 % 60 % Annual Reports 2013 80 % The Court generally evaluates the efficiency and effectiveness of its resources, according to its ability to implement its work programme, carry out audits and ensure the expertise of its staff in a timely manner.
Implementation of the EAFRD 2014 work programme 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% Annual reports Special reports Special reports Other tasks 100 % 100 % 100 % 95 % 85 %
Our management 50 Preparation of special reports In order for special reports of the Court to have an effect, they must be submitted promptly.
In recent years, the Court has managed to shorten the time required for the examinations.
The aim of the 2013-2017 strategy is to achieve further improvements and this strategy is expected to produce measurable results in the coming years.
Processing of the 2014 Special Reports In 2014, the Court prepared 24 Special Reports, of which 42 % (2013: 37 %) were completed within the 18-month timeframe of the Court's objective.
On average, 19 months were needed for the preparation of the special reports adopted in 2014 (2013: 20 months).
100% 80% 60% 60% 40% 20% 0% 10-18 months 10 SB 18-26 months 13 SB 4% More than 26 months 1 SB 54 % 42% Professional training In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (5 days) of vocational training (without language courses).
Training days per examiner per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 10 2012 2013 2014 Average number of training days for examiners (without language courses) The Court again exceeded the target for professional training for examiners, as can be seen in the importance it attaches to the development of personnel.
At 6.4 target ≥ 5 days 5.2 5,8 consideration of language courses, an average of 10 training days were spent by an auditor in 2014.
Supporting audit activities Staff resources Personnel allocation As a result of the difficult situation of public finances in Europe, the Court continued the reduction of staff per year of 1% over a period of five years (2013-2017), as laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of December 2013.
As a result, staffing in 2014 was reduced from 891 to 882 temporary staff (excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of the posts, 561 are allocated to the audit posts (including 113 staff in the members' cabinets).
With a view to achieving the best possible use of resources, in 2014, opportunities to increase efficiency were once again identified and implemented in all activities by the establishment of procedures.
The relocation of staff from the support services to the audit services was also continued in 2014.
However, this was compensated by the transfer of certain support services from members' cabinets to an administrative pool and the transfer of the communication and institutional relations unit to the President's services.
51 Attitude The staff of the Court have a broad academic and professional background and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the staff consists of both civil servants and temporary staff.
In 2014, an internal selection procedure for grade AST 1 and a selection procedure with a view to recruiting a speaker were carried out.
The Court also provided placements for 77 university graduates for periods of three to five months in the course of the year.
The Court recruited 78 staff in 2014, 31 officials, 29 temporary staff, 13 contract staff and five seconded national experts.
The number of vacancies has been close to 3% since 2011 (on 31 December 2014 there were 27 vacancies).
Distribution of Court posts on 31 December 2014 2012 2013 2014 Examination services 573 576 561 Translation 143 147 141 Administration 139 137 141 Presidential services 32 31 39 Total 887 891 882
Supporting audit activities 52 Balance between men and women Like the other EU institutions, the Court has a policy of equal opportunities in personal management and recruitment.
After a continuous increase in the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now reached a balanced proportion of men and women in each of its employees of 50%.
The following graph shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility on 31 December 2014, which has hardly changed in recent years.
Men and women by category of staff in 2014 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Assistants - Secretaries Auditors - Boards Men Management Women 66% 41% 59% 31% 69% 34%
Support for audit activities 53 executives by nationality and gender on 31 December 2014 Women Men Nationality1 Directors Head of Unit 4 Belgium 1 3 1 Bulgaria 1 1 1 Czech Republic 1 1 Denmark 2 3 4 Germany 1 6 1 Estonia 1 3 Ireland 1 2 1 2 Greece 1 2 3 4 Spain 1 6 8 France 1 7 1 Croatia 1 1 2 Italy 3 Cyprus 1 Latvia 1 1 1 Lithuania 1 1 Luxembourg 1 Hungary 1 1 Malta 1 1 1 Netherlands 2 1 Austria 1 1 Poland 1 2 1 Portugal 3 1 Romania 1 1 Slovenia 1 1 Slovakia 1 1 1 Finland 1 1 Sweden 1 1 8 United Kingdom 4 5 21 46 Total 11 56 1 In the minutes for Member States.
Support for audit activities 54 The action plan on equal opportunities aims to achieve a balanced proportion of men and women at all levels of the Court.
According to the last wave of recruitment, 48% of employees in grades AD 5 to AD are 8 women (an increase compared to 43% in 2009).
Age profile The age profile of the staff in active employment on 31 December 2014 indicates that 53% of the staff of the farm are 44 years of age or younger.
20-24 0.1 % 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0.3 % Since the next five to ten years are expected to be renewed in senior management positions, the growing proportion of women in the AD function group will result in more women in management positions in the future.
27 (40%) of the 67 directors and heads of unit are 55 years of age or older.
As a result, the next five to ten years of retirement will result in a renewal of senior management positions.
2.4 % 10.3% 19.2% 21.9% 18.1% 14.3% 3.9% 9.4%
Support for audit activities 55 Support services Professional training In order to further develop the Court as a professional audit body and to make the best use of the knowledge it has, as well as the expertise and expertise it has at its disposal, it is necessary to develop a continuous training of the staff in order to keep pace with professional developments and to acquire new skills.
In 2014, the staff of the Court (auditors and other employees) completed on average eight days of professional training.
The proportion of language courses in continuing vocational training is continuing to decline.
In 2014, this represented 43% of the total number of training days (compared to 46% in 2013).
In order to make the best use of existing resources and technologies, the Court has been offering its employees individually tailored e-learning courses and training courses, in the form of integrated learning, in which the participants, before the presence event, complete the general theory in an online training.
In addition, the aim of exchanging internal knowledge and providing the Court's auditors with the most up-to-date information on developments in the public-sector audit, and the organisation of presentations of internal and external experts on developments in audit and other relevant areas, were the aim of the Court's internal exchange of knowledge.
Translation Translation is an audit support activity that enables the Court to fulfil its mission and to fulfil its communication objectives by providing the results it has provided in the languages of EU citizens.
In 2014, the total translation volume was 4% higher than in 2013.
More than 98% of the translations were completed on time.
In addition to normal translation work, the Translation Directorate further expanded the direct participation of translators in the Court's audit and core business: translators provided linguistic support in 40 audit visits across the EU and in drafting audit reports.
In 2014, the Translation Directorate focused on quality assurance.
For this purpose, the first quality assurance manual in the translation sector was adopted and a system for customer feedback was developed.
In order to make the services more efficient, the course of the translation work was reviewed and optimised. In cooperation with the Information Technologies Directorate, the automation of the process was started.
Supporting audit activities 56 All procedures relating to the development and provision of instruments were carried out under the control of the security and continuity of operations: for example, in 2014, after the new K3 building, a comprehensive test of re-operation was carried out after the collapse of the IT systems (disaster recovery) and the modernisation of central IT components (e.g. the introduction of the Court's e-mail system).
Administration and infrastructure The role of the Finance and Support Services Directorate is to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mandate and to fulfil its strategic objectives, and to ensure that the necessary financial, internal controls and accounting mechanisms are available to support all of the Court's activities.
In 2014, the Directorate continued to focus on making its activities even more efficient and economic.
An environmental management system for the Court is currently being developed in line with the principles of the Community system for environmental management and audit (EMAS), with certification to be obtained by the end of 2016.
In 2014, several measures have been successfully implemented, delivering concrete results and demonstrating the Court's commitment to the environment, including: • adoption of environment policy; • implementation of environmental analysis and verification of compliance with environmental law; • increasing the number of environmental awareness campaigns from four in 2013 to eight in 2014; • gaining BREEAM environmental certification (the world's leading method for designing and evaluating sustainable buildings) for the K3 building and maintaining the certification mark for good waste management; • promoting sustainable transport among workers by providing a new bicycle room with showers and changing areas for cyclists, by installing a charging station for electric cars and by reserving good parking places for transport communities.
Support for audit activities 57 Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union.
The Court's budget accounts for around 0.093 % of total EU expenditure and 1.58% of total administrative expenditure.
In 2014, the overall budget execution rate was 98.8%, compared with 92% in 2013.
The higher execution rate is mainly due to a better estimate and planning of expenditure in Title 1, which achieved an average execution rate of 98.8%.
The average execution rate for Title 2 was 98.4%.
Implementation of the 2014 budget Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and staff of the institution 14 - Other staff and external services 15 190 93 180 4 191 3 350 2 629 118 540 2 564 7 199 1 543 552 703 2 397 14 958 133 498 14 554 92 774 4 113 2 592 117 152 2 541 7 199 1 541 532 649 2 264 14 726 131 878 96% 99% 93% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 1 000 Euro 14 420 92 745 4 071 2 641 1 957 115 834 1 830 3 581 686 450 466 1 316 8 329 124 163 162 - Missions 20 - Buildings Subtotal Title 1 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Mobilisation and ancillary costs 23 - Current operational expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications 20 - Missions
Support for audit activities 58 budget 2015 In the 2015 budget budget, there was a decrease of 0.4 % in the budget, in comparison with 2014.
Budget 2015 Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution2 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 10 291 97 420 4 301 3 700 2 669 118 381 3 080 7 152 785 426 717 2 365 14 525 132 906 15 175 93 180 4 096 3700 2 612 118 763 3 350 7 110 808 438 768 2 2 261 14 735 133 498 HOUSEHOLD1 162 Missions 20 - Buildings Subtotal Title 1 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure relating to the members and staff of the institution 2015 (1 000 Euro) 2014 (1 000 Euro) Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous expenditure 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Furniture and ancillary costs 23 - Current operating expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Subtotal Title 2 Court of Auditors 1 Data in the table corresponding to the budget originally adopted.
2 According to the Commission's proposal to put the expenditure on the pensions of the former members of all the institutions of the European Union in the Commission section of which the expenditure on the pensions of the staff of all institutions is already included, the expenditure on the pensions of the former members of the Court of Auditors in the budget adopted in 2015 was transferred to the Commission section of the budget.
Supporting audit activities 59 Auditing and accountability Internal audit of the Court The internal auditor advises the Court on risk control issues by issuing opinions on the quality of the management and control systems and recommendations to improve the conditions for managing the operations and to promote sound financial management.
The internal auditor also supports the work of the external auditor, whose mandate is to certify the Court's annual accounts.
The internal auditor reported to the Court on the results of the audits carried out during 2014, the findings, the recommendations and the actions taken on the basis of those recommendations.
The Court reports annually to the European Parliament and to the Council on the results of the internal auditor's work.
In October 2014, the Court's Internal Audit confirmed its compliance with the definition of internal audit, the Code of Conduct and the standards established by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IAA).
This certification was the result of a comprehensive quality assessment of the Court's internal audit, which was carried out at the request of the Internal Auditor and the Internal Audit Committee by an external evaluator, Deloitte SARL, and which met IIA's international standards of internal audit professional practice.
External audit of the Court The Court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach of applying the same principles of transparency and accountability to itself as to the bodies it is examining.
The auditor's report – Pricewaterhouse‐ Coopers SARL – on the Court of Auditors' annual accounts for the financial year 2013 was published on 18 September 2014.
Audit opinions of the independent auditor – Financial year 2013 On the annual accounts: "We believe that the annual closure provides a true picture of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2013 and of its profitability and cash flows for the year ending at that reporting date in accordance with Regulation (EU, Eura‐tom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules of application of the Financial Regulation: "With regard to the use of resources and the control procedures described in this report, we have not encountered the issues on which we have to conclude that, in all material respects as well as taking into account the above assessment criteria, the resources allocated to the Court have not been used for the purposes envisaged and the control procedures that have not been set up, and of which the control procedures we have been required to guarantee that the financial transactions have been carried out in accordance with the rules and regulations in force."
Declaration by the 60 authorising officer by delegation The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation that the information contained in that report is accurate and accurate, and confirms with sufficient certainty that the funds provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes provided and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that the control procedures provided provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, and for the adequate management of the risks of fraud or suspicion of fraud, that the costs and benefits of the controls are adequate.
This security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information available to him, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officer by subdelegation, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 February 2015 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS DE 2015 Activity report
02 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/ContactForm.aspx Website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorsECA A great deal of additional information on the European Union is available on the Internet. It can be accessed through the Europa server (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2016 Print ISBN 978-92-872-4091-0 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-4084-2 EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-4066-8 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/880265 doi:10.2865/420922 doi:10.2865/528320 QJ-AA-16-001-EN-C QJ-AA-16-001-EN-N QJ-AA-16-001-EN-E © European Union, 2016 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors European Court of Auditors Court of Auditors
European Court of Auditors 02 About the Court The European Court of Auditors is the independent external audit body of the European Union based in Luxembourg.
He has 28 members – one from each EU Member State – and employs around 900 staff from all EU Member States in the audit and administrative field.
Since its establishment in 1977, the Court has been committed to better EU financial management and better accounting.
The Court's tasks The Court shall verify that the EU funds have been properly accounted for and taken up and spent in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations and that the funds have been used in an optimum way.
It warns against risks, provides security and provides guidance to EU policy-makers on how to improve public financial management and how to ensure that European citizens know how to use their money.
Through its audit work and other activities, the Court contributes to strengthening the democratic legitimacy and sustainability of the European Union.
Content 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 President's Preface 5 2015 at a glance 5 Our Activities 5 Our Management 6-40 Our Activities 6-9 Audits 10-13 Annual Reports 14 Special Annual Reports 15-33 Special Reports 34 Opinions 35-36 High-level events and conferences 37-38 Relations with the addressees 39-40 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions 41-49 Our Management 41-42 The Court's College 43-45 Court's Strategy for 2013-2017 46-49 Measurement of Performance 50-59 Support for Audit Activities 50-53 Staff Resources 53-55 Support Services 56-57 Financial information 58-59 Audit and accountability 60 Statement by the authorising officer by delegation
Foreword by President 04 Dear reader, in 2015, to which this report refers, the European Union has once again been faced with major challenges, which have been major developments in the governance, policy and financial management of the EU, including the creation of the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) and the introduction of the Single Resolution Mechanism for banks in the euro area.
These and other developments have led to new audit tasks for the Court.
In 2015, we continued to examine the activities of the EU institutions and other bodies and all EU funds paid to Member States, countries outside the EU, international organisations and other beneficiaries.
In accordance with our obligations arising from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we have prepared annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Funds, as well as special annual reports on the accounts of more than 50 EU agencies and other bodies.
In addition, we produced 25 special reports on numerous topics, the results of which are summarized in the present activity report.
We would like to draw your attention in particular to two special reports: our report on the Emissions Trading Scheme, which shows that our work goes beyond purely financial matters, and our report on financial assistance to countries in difficulty, which is part of a series of new special reports on financial and economic governance.
We also delivered eight opinions last year on new or amended EU legislation with significant financial implications, including an opinion on the Regulation on the establishment of the EFSI.
In order to make a difference to our work, we need to pass on the lessons learned to stakeholders at EU and national level.
During the year, we have further deepened our cooperation with the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union – our main partners in ensuring the EU's accountability.
The results of our audits were presented to an increasing number of specialised committees of these bodies, and we took their concerns into account in the planning of future audits.
Members of the Court also paid high-level visits to the Member States to strengthen partnerships with national authorities, parliaments and audit bodies.
In 2015, we organised two notable conferences: one in Brussels on EU energy security and the other in Luxembourg on the future of development aid in the light of the new sustainable development goals of the United Nations.
We also prepared a major internal reform in order to better respond to the ongoing developments within the European Union.
The present report explains some important changes that we have made in relation to our relations with stakeholders, our audits and our resources.
In addition, you will receive important information about our human resources management, finances and performance, and the results of our internal and external audits of last year, as well as the recent annual discharge procedure.
I hope that this report will provide you with a useful and interesting overview of the Court's activities in 2015, which will provide us with our mission of improving EU financial management, promoting accountability and transparency, and protecting the financial interests of EU citizens.
05 Our activities Our management • Annual reports on the general budget of the EU • and on the European Development Funds for the financial year 2014, which essentially include the Statement of Assurance and the audit results. • 52 special annual reports on the Court's audit reports on the financial management of the individual agencies and other EU bodies and two summary reports. We carried out an internal reform in order to streamline our audit and reporting procedures and to allow for greater flexibility in the management of our resources. • 25 special reports on specific management and budgetary areas, including the emissions trading system, youth employment programmes and financial assistance during the financial crisis. • 8 opinions on new or amended EU legislation and other decisions on financial management, from the proposed regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments to the amended regulation on the Single Resolution Mechanism. • Meetings, seminars and conferences with our addressees including two high-level conferences on the EU reporting obligation, one on the security of energy supply and the other on the future of development assistance.
We continued our equal opportunities policy in recruitment and personnel management. • We made considerable progress in integrating audit management and audit documentation information systems. We also made audit-related information available on mobile devices. The European Court of Auditors' premises in Luxembourg.
Our Activities 06 Audits Our audit reports and opinions form an important link in the EU's accountability chain, as they are used to bring to account the bodies in charge of the EU's financial management, in particular in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
These bodies are primarily the European Commission, but also the other EU institutions and bodies.
In areas where shared management is concerned, Member States also play an important role, such as agricultural and cohesion expenditure.
Our three main products are: • Annual reports, which are mainly about the results of the audits of the accounts and compliance audits of the budget of the European Union and of the European Development Funds (EDF), but also about aspects of the financial management and performance aspects.
• Special reports presenting the results of selected economic or compliance audits on specific expenditure or policies or on budgetary or management issues. • Opinions on new or amended legal acts affecting financial management and other products based on analyses, either at the request of another institution or at the Court's own initiative.
We strive to manage our resources in such a way that an appropriate balance is ensured between our various activities, while well covering the various areas of the EU budget and achieving sound results.
In 2015, we used a significant share of our resources to prepare the annual Statements of Assurance, which were then presented in our annual reports.
The work of the Statement of Assurance covers the two aspects on which we have to deliver an annual audit opinion in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
In addition, as far as possible, we take into account the work of other auditors (see section on the review of EU agencies on page 14) and management declarations in the form of the Annual Activity Reports of the Directors-General of the Commission.
In addition to the statutory audits, we at our own discretion select specific expenditure or policy areas. This is based on criteria such as the risk of irregularities or insufficient performance, potential for improvement and public interest.
We choose these topics completely independently, but take into account the points of view of our addressees.
In 2015, we produced 25 special reports, which are in particular the result of our audit reports.
The summaries of the special reports are presented in the present activity report (pp. 15-33).
In 2015, we issued eight opinions on proposals for new or amended regulations and regulations (p. 34).
In particular, we draw attention to our opinion on the EFSI to clarify both the issue and the impact of our opinions.
All audit reports and opinions are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Our Activities 07 Audit Reports and Opinions 2013-2015 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total 91 2 Total 89 2 52 25 10* Total 77 2 50 19 6 51 24 14 * Annual Reports Special Reports Opinions and other announcements Eight opinions and two summary reports on EU agencies and Joint Undertakings. 2013 2014 2015
Our activities 08 audit visits in 2015 While most of the audit work was carried out at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, the auditors also carried out audit visits to the Member States' authorities, other beneficiaries of EU funds inside and outside the European Union, including organisations involved in the award of EU funds, such as the European Investment Bank's regional offices in Kenya and Uganda, as well as to other EU institutions, agencies and agencies.
Through these visits, we obtained direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in granting, managing, collecting and disbursing EU funds, as well as from the respective final recipients.
Our audit teams typically consist of two to three auditors, and the duration of the audit visit can be a few days, but also several weeks.
The frequency and intensity of the audit work in each Member State and beneficiary country depends on the type of audit and, where appropriate, the sample selection.
The number of visits may therefore vary from country to country and from year to year.
Within the EU, our audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States visited.
In 2015, the Court's auditors spent 4 310 days on-the-spot audits – in Member States and outside the EU – and obtained audit evidence for annual reports and selected audit tasks (special reports).
They also spent a lot of time with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralised agencies and bodies throughout the EU.
On-the-spot inspections took less days than in 2014.
This is due to more efficient working methods and to the increasing use of technologies such as the secure exchange of data and documents as well as videoconferencing.
Detecting fraud Although our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud, our audit work occasionally encounters cases where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activities.
In combating fraud against the EU budget, the Court cooperates with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
We shall forward to OLAF any suspicion of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity to the EU's financial interests which arises during our audit work.
OLAF will then continue to pursue these cases, which will decide on possible investigations and will, where appropriate, cooperate with Member States' authorities.
In 2015, we forwarded 27 cases of suspected fraud to OLAF (2014: 16 cases).
Our activities 09 days on site in 2015 Italy Germany Poland Spain France United Kingdom Greece Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Netherlands Finland Austria Czech Republic Lithuania Ireland Denmark Slovakia Sweden Slovenia Malta Belgium Cyprus Latvia Estonia Luxembourg Switzerland Algeria Azerbaijan Egypt Uganda Serbia China United States Bosnia and Herzegovina Cuba Myanmar Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Eritrea Ghana Tanzania Norway Albania Haiti Papua New Guinea Rwanda Montenegro Ukraine Ethiopia Kenya Democratic Republic of the Congo Republic of Moldova Total 4 310 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
Our activities 10 Annual reports on the financial year 2014 In 2015, we dedicated most of our audits of the accounts and compliance audits to the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2014.
The 2014 Annual Report, which resulted from this work, was published on 10 November 2015 and presented to our audience, including the European Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the European Union (Economy and Finance Council), national parliaments and governments, and the media.
The main objective of our annual report is to help the European Parliament, the Council and the citizens to assess the quality of EU financial management by the submission of statements and conclusions.
In the 2014 Annual Report, we provide a guarantee of reliability in the use of EU funds in the financial year under review and highlight the areas where the risk of EU funds not being used properly was greatest.
In addition, we analyse why errors have occurred and make useful and cost-effective recommendations on possible improvements.
We have revised the structure of our annual report on the financial year 2014 in order to make the report more readable.
The headings of the chapters now correspond to those of the headings of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
The key element of the report remains the Statement of Assurance, in which we deliver our audit opinion on the reliability of the EU's annual accounts and on compliance with the rules on revenue and expenditure.
In addition, we have specifically assessed all important EU activities and provided important information on budgetary and financial management.
The report also contains information on the performance of the EU budget and the performance reporting of the Commission, in particular on progress towards the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy.
President Vítor Caldeira presents the European Parliament with the annual report 2014 of the European Court of Auditors. EU expenditure in 2014 amounted to 142.5 billion euros = nearly 300 euros per citizen
Our activities 11 The key statements of the 2014 Annual Report The European Court of Auditors calls for a new approach to the EU's investment and expenditures.  the reliability of the EU's accounts was confirmed for 2014.  s Revenues were lawful and correct in 2014.  for 2014 payments were substantially affected by errors.
Conclusions and recommendations   Huang The 2014 EU accounts were properly drawn up in accordance with international principles and provide an accurate picture in line with actual circumstances.
We have therefore again been able to give an unqualified opinion on their reliability.
However, we issued a failed audit opinion on the regularity of the payments.  the estimated error rate, which measures the extent of the irregularities, is 4.4% for the 2014 payments, close to the 2013 error rate (4.5%) and consistently above the materiality threshold of 2%.  is the estimated error rates we estimated were equal (4.6%) for expenditure subject to shared management with the Member States and expenditure directly managed by the Commission.
The highest error rates were recorded for expenditure under the headings "Economic, social and territorial cohesion " (5.7%) and "Competitiveness for growth and employment " (5.6%).
The lowest estimated error rate for administrative expenditure was found (0.5%).
The estimated error rate for reimbursement schemes (5.5%) for which the EU reimbursements eligible costs for eligible activities on the basis of the cost statements made by beneficiaries is twice the estimated error rate for schemes based on payment entitlements (2.7%), which do not reimburse costs, but the payment depends on the fulfilment of certain conditions.
Without these measures, the estimated total error rate would have been 5,5 %.
The Commission needs further improvement in terms of risk assessment and the impact of corrective action.  The Commission, the Member State authorities and independent auditors would have been able to use all the information they have available to them, would have been able to prevent, detect and correct a significant proportion of the errors prior to their inception.  the amounts to be paid in the current and in the coming years remain very high.
The Commission should take action to address this persistent problem.
The Partnership Agreements and Programmes do not sufficiently take into account the objectives of Europe 2020 by the Member States.
Due to these two aspects, the Commission can only monitor and report on the performance and contribution of the EU budget to Europe 2020 to a limited extent.  to the forthcoming mid-term review of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework is crucial for the management of EU expenditure.
It is important that the Commission analyse the areas of persistently high error rates as soon as possible, assess the possibilities for reducing these error rates, paying greater attention to the performance of expenditure.
Our activities 12 Examination of operations in the individual EU spending areas - Results for 2014 Expenditure area Natural resources Economic, social and territorial cohesion Competitiveness for growth and employment Europe in the world Administration Tested population and estimated error rate 5.6 % 2.7 % 0.5 % 3.6 % 5.7 % Audit conclusions 57.5 billion Euro 55.7 billion Euro 13.0 billion Euro 7.4 billion Euro 8.8 billion Euro 0 20 40 60 billion Euro The table was taken from the EU 2014 review summary, which is available on our website (eca.europa.eu/en/euauditinbrief-2014).
Our activities 13 annual report on the European Development Funds (EDF) for 2014  ( ) Revenues were not affected by errors.  ) Payments were largely affected by errors. Under the EDF, the European Union grants development cooperation funds to the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) and the overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
The EDFs are financed by the Member States and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and, for some aid, by the European Investment Bank.
Their revenues were not significantly affected by errors, while there was an estimated error rate of 3.8% for payments.
As in previous years, we identified weaknesses in ex ante controls.
The estimated error rate is almost two-thirds due to errors related to non-compliance with procurement rules and lack of supporting evidence to justify expenditure.
Our annual report on the EDFs is published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Our activities 14 Special annual reports for the financial year 2014 Total funding for all EU agencies, bodies, and Joint Undertakings in 2014 was around EUR 4 billion.
EU agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings perform certain tasks on behalf of the EU and are based in different EU Member States.
They are active in a wide range of areas, such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and transport, and each has its own mandate, a board of directors, a director, staff and a budget.
In 2015, we produced 52 special annual reports on the financial year 2014.
They covered 41 decentralised agencies, executive agencies and other EU agencies, eight European research Joint Undertakings, the European Schools, the Galileo Joint Undertaking in liquidation and the Sisnet communication infrastructure.
In addition, we published two summaries, which provide an overview of the results of our audits in this area (one of the summaries of the EU agencies and other bodies and the other of the Joint Undertakings).
These reports were submitted to the President of the European Parliament and to the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, the General Affairs Council and the Council's Committee on Budgets.
In 2014, the individual accounts of the 33 decentralised agencies and other bodies of the EU were independently audited for the first time by a private audit firm.
In preparing our audit opinions on these financial statements, we took account of this audit work and of the measures taken by the audited bodies on the basis of the audited bodies' findings.
The financial statements of the other agencies and Joint Undertakings have been fully audited by us.
We found the accounting of all agencies, other agencies and Joint Undertakings in 2014 to be reliable.
The operations were lawful and proper, except for Artemis (embedded ICT systems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and ECSEL (electronic components and systems).
In general, the agencies have further improved their procedures by taking corrective measures in the light of our comments from previous years.
Our special annual reports and the two summaries of the results of our audits of the agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings for 2014 are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
52 special annual reports on the EU agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings, based throughout Europe Headquartered by Europol, The Hague, the Netherlands.
Our Activities 15 Special Reports issued in 2015 In addition to our annual reports and special annual reports, we publish special reports throughout the year, containing the results of our cost-effectiveness and compliance audits, which we carry out on specific budget areas or management issues of our choice.
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, we are committed to achieving maximum impact and thus making the best use of our resources.
Our economic assessments often cover several years and their subject matter is complex, so it may take more than a year for these audits to be completed.
In 2015, the Special Reports focused in particular on the following topics: the overall EU objective of creating added value and growth, and the EU's response to global challenges such as the sustainability of public finances, the environment and climate change.
Under the respective headings corresponding to the headings of the multiannual financial framework, the 25 special reports prepared in 2015 are briefly presented.
The main stages of a selected cost-effectiveness or compliance audit Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the reply of the audited body.
02 Clear, structured presentation of the main findings and conclusions.
Develop recommendations.
Identify the appropriateness and feasibility of a proposed review.
Determine the scope, the objectives, the approach, the methods and the timetable of the audit.
Our activities 16 100 80 60 40 20 0 Competitiveness for growth and jobs EUR 143 billion 13% Smart and inclusive growth Smart and inclusive growth accounts for most of the EU budget spending.
This area covers the two sub-headings "Competitiveness for growth and employment" and "Economic, social and territorial cohesion".
The sub-heading "Competitiveness for growth and employment" covers funding for trans-European energy, transport and telecommunications networks, business development, research and innovation, education and training, social policy, etc. The planned expenditure in this area for 2014-2020 represents 13% of the total EU budget for the programming period, i.e. EUR 143 billion.
In 2015, budget allocations of 15.7 billion euros were provided. • Inland waterway transport in Europe: no significant improvements in the share of transport modes and shipability conditions since 2001 (No 1/2015) – This special report examines whether projects co-financed by the EU budget have effectively contributed to increasing the share of transport modes in inland waterway transport and to improving shipability and whether the EU strategies for inland waterway transport have been coherent and based on relevant and comprehensive analyses.
Projects co-financed by the EU have not been implemented effectively, which has not been able to have the effect of making inland navigation an alternative to road freight transport, nor of improving shipability.
Although the Commission had made inland waterway transport a priority, the Member States have paid little attention to inland waterways.
There is no coherent overall strategy among Member States linked by the main shipping corridors, and the maintenance of river flows and political and environmental considerations are not sufficiently taken into account in EU strategies.
Member States should give priority to those inland waterway projects which bring the greatest and most immediate benefits and the Commission should concentrate its resources on those projects where advanced plans for the removal of bottlenecks are available.
In the period 2007-2013, EUR 1.3 billion was allocated to EU Inland Navigation Projects under the TEN-T programme, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund.
Our activities 17 • Is EU financial support for micro-entrepreneurs adequately responding to the needs of micro-entrepreneurs?
(No 8/2015) – This special report analyses whether the needs of micro-entrepreneurs are met by the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Progress Microfinance Facility.
The auditors noted that the programming and design of the ESF financial assistance had weaknesses and that the provision of services was not adequately and reliably monitored.
Neither the Commission nor the Member States had comparable information on the administrative costs of each Member State and funding mechanisms.
These circumstances could affect the effectiveness of the EU's financial support to micro-entrepreneurs.
Member States should make needs assessments in the design of financial instruments and in the preparation of operational programmes, including the provision of financial assistance to micro-entrepreneurs by the EU.
The Commission should make the use of ESF financial instruments by the Member States conditional on robust risk management systems being in place.
Microfinance usually amounts to less than EUR 25 000, often less than EUR 10 000.
Total demand in the EU Member States is estimated at more than €12 billion in terms of funding.
Examples mentioned in the report include the provision of EUR 5 000 for the development of an urban kiosk and the provision of EUR 9 500 in support of the creation of a playground and a clothing business. • Improving energy security through the development of the internal energy market: major efforts are needed (No. 16/2015) – This special report addresses the question of whether the implementation of internal energy market policies and EU energy infrastructure spending have contributed effectively to the achievement of energy security benefits.
The audit showed that energy infrastructure in Europe is in general not yet fully integrated and therefore does not at present offer an effective security of energy supply.
The Commission should therefore identify non-active energy infrastructure in the EU and work with Member States to remove the obstacles to its use for the purposes of the internal energy market.
In addition, the Commission should consider new ways of making energy from one Member State available to customers in another.
The internal energy market is intended to facilitate the free movement and trade of natural gas and electricity throughout the EU.
Under the EU budget, EUR 3.7 billion has been allocated to the financing of energy infrastructure from 2007 to 2013, and EUR 7.4 billion is expected between 2014 and 2020.
However, the report points out that the EU's objective of completing the internal energy market by 2014 has not been achieved.
Our activities 18 Economic, social and territorial cohesion Smart and inclusive growth The sub-heading "Economic, social and territorial cohesion" covers regional policy measures to help the least developed countries and regions in the EU to connect to the rest, to strengthen the competitiveness of all regions and to promote cooperation between them.
The planned cohesion expenditure for 2014-2020 represents 34% of the EU budget for the entire programming period, i.e. 367 billion euros.
100 80 60 40 20 0 367 billion EUR 34% • Efforts to resolve public procurement problems in EU cohesion spending should be stepped up (No 10/2015) – This Special Report examines whether the Commission and Member States are taking appropriate and effective measures to address the problem of public procurement errors in cohesion policy.
The audit showed that public procurement problems are still widespread across the EU.
Although the Commission and the Member States have begun to tackle the issue, much remains to be done.
Serious errors have led to a lack of fair competition and to contracts not being awarded to the best bidders.
A systematic analysis is carried out only to a very limited extent and there is a lack of sufficiently accurate, reliable and coherent data on the nature and extent of the errors.
In the event that the situation does not improve by the end of 2016, it is recommended that payments for the period 2014-2020 be suspended to the Member States concerned.
In the period 2007-2013, EUR 349 billion has been allocated to regional policy expenditure to be paid through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund and the European Social Fund.
A substantial part of this funding will be spent through public procurement.
Errors were identified for around 40 % of the projects that the Court assessed in the light of its annual reports on the 2009-2013 financial years in the context of public procurement.
Our activities 19 • EU funding of municipal waste water treatment plants in the Danube basin: Member States need further support to achieve the objectives of the EU waste water policy (No. 2/2015) – This special report assesses how effectively Member States in the Danube basin have been supported with funds from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund to achieve the objectives of the EU waste water policy.
The audit showed that while the EU spending programmes had a significant share of the progress made in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, delays in compliance with the rules and the use of available EU funds occurred in all countries.
Although the waste water in the plants in these countries was generally adequately treated, the handling of sewage sludge and rain overflows was sometimes inadequate.
One third of the plants were oversized and potentially unsustainable in the long term.
Countries were only slow to make use of available EU funds, so there was a risk that EU funding would be lost or additional funding from national budgets would be needed.
The Commission should strengthen reporting requirements and Member States should create legislation to ensure prompt connection to public sewerage.
The Commission and the Member States should establish criteria for all uses of sewage sludge and ensure reliable monitoring of pollutants.
The Danube catchment area is Europe's largest catchment area.
The EU contribution to wastewater treatment projects in the four audited Member States amounted to EUR 7.9 billion in the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods. Water quality in the Danube basin: progress in the implementation of the Water Framework Directive, but still need for further measures (No. 23/2015) – This special report examines whether the implementation of the Water Framework Directive by the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia has led to a better quality of surface waters in the Danube basin.
The audit showed that there have been few improvements since 2004.
The main reason for the limited progress was that the Member States' plans were not ambitious enough.
Specific measures were lacking for water bodies with insufficient quality.
In addition, inadequacies in monitoring systems led to a lack of data, both in terms of the type of pollution and the sources of pollution, which led to a negative assessment of the state of water bodies.
In addition, Member States have approved a significant number of bodies of water without sufficient justification of important deadlines.
In the period 2007-2013, Member States in the Danube basin received EUR 6.35 billion from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund for wastewater treatment.
During the same period, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (ERDF) allocated €6.39 billion to compensate farmers for agri-environmental measures.
Our activities 20 • EU Youth Guarantee: the start has been made, but implementation risks are foreseeable (No. 3/2015) – This special report examines whether the Commission has adequately supported Member States in setting up the Youth Guarantee and whether there are potential risks in terms of implementation.
The audit identified three risks that could prevent the effective implementation of the Youth Guarantee: the adequacy of the overall funding, the definition of a "high quality" job and the way in which the Commission monitors the Youth Guarantee and reports on the results.
The auditors concluded that the Commission had given timely and appropriate support to Member States in the implementation of the Youth Guarantee.
However, the Commission has not carried out an impact assessment indicating the expected costs and benefits, although this is a standard procedure.
While the Commission had asked the Member States to submit cost estimates when submitting their Youth Guarantee implementation plans, some did not provide the necessary information, and no Member States indicated the estimated cost of the necessary structural reforms.
The Youth Guarantee was established in June 2013 in response to the deterioration in the situation of unemployed young people, exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis.
In the period 2014-2020, the Youth Guarantee, through the European Social Fund and a specific Youth Employment Initiative, will be co-financed by the EU budget with a total of 12.7 billion euros. • Support for the Youth Action Teams by the Commission: reallocation of ESF funding successfully, but insufficient focus on outcomes (No. 17/2015) – This special report will examine whether the Youth Action Teams made proposals in 2012 on how ESF funding can deliver faster and more effective outcomes for unemployed young people, and whether these proposals have contributed to the redeployment of ESF funding.
The auditors found that although the youth action teams set up by the Commission managed to shift funds to support young people, the Commission made only limited proposals.
The Commission provided advisory support to Member States, but was limited by the scope and quality of the information available.
While the initiative led to the reprogramming and re-allocation of resources from the European Social Fund, the Commission focused on the budgetary implications of the changes to the operational programmes.
If there is a discrepancy between the promises made and the objectives actually achievable by the Commission, there should not be too high expectations of such initiatives.
The Commission set up youth action teams as part of its Youth Opportunities Initiative in 2012.
The teams were composed of experts from the eight Member States with the highest youth unemployment figures and from the Commission.
The initiative covered funds of almost EUR 10 billion from the European Social Fund, which were still available in the Member States concerned.
Our activities 21 Natural resources 417 billion euros Sustainable growth: natural resources This heading covers the Common Agricultural and Fisheries Policy, rural development and EU environmental measures.
Three quarters of the expenditure relates to direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets.
The planned expenditure for 2014-2020 represents almost 39% of the total EU budget for this programming period, i.e. EUR 417 billion.
A budget of EUR 56 billion was made available for 2015.
100 80 60 40 20 0 39% • Technical assistance: what contribution has it made in the fields of agriculture and rural development?
(No 4/2015) – This special report reviews the use of the financial resources for technical assistance for agriculture and rural development for the 2007-2013 programming period.
The audit focused on the regularity, effectiveness and effectiveness of funding at the level of the Commission and the Member States.
The audit showed that neither the European Commission nor the Member States were able to demonstrate how well the use of technical assistance in the fields of agriculture and rural development has contributed to the economic use of the budget and to the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
Rural networks designed to encourage cooperation, exchange of knowledge and innovation in the agricultural sector are very well suited as recipients of technical assistance.
In most cases, however, the funding earmarked for capacity building has been used to support the general administrative budgets.
The Commission should clarify the scope and use of technical assistance for rural development in the Member States and closely monitor its implementation.
For the period 2007-2013, the Member States had planned to use EUR 1.5 billion of EU funds for technical assistance, a ceiling of 4% of the respective national budget available for rural development.
For the period 2014-2020, this amount increased to around 1.9 billion euros.
Our activities 22 • Are financial instruments in the field of rural development a successful and promising instrument?
(No 5/2015) – This special report examines whether the financial instruments (credit and guarantee funds) used in the framework of rural development policy have been well designed and managed in the 2007-2013 programming period.
The audit showed that the financial instruments were not yet successful.
This is mainly due to the fact that the financial instruments were overcapitalised and that their potential for the desired leverage effect and the revolving effect could not be realised.
There were no clear arguments for the introduction of financial instruments in the 2007-2013 programming period.
Nor was there any reliable quantifiable information available to justify the nature of the financial instruments established to determine the demand for financial instruments in the agricultural sector and to demonstrate that the amount of capital allocated to a fund was adequate.
For Member States, increased incentives should be put in place to set up rural development financial instruments and to strengthen the demand of farmers or other beneficiaries, and appropriate standards and targets should be set for the 2014-2020 period in terms of leverage and revolving effect.
By the end of 2013, the EU and its Member States had invested around EUR 700 million in the Guarantee and Credit Fund for Rural Development.
The Commission wants Member States to commit themselves to at least double the use of these instruments for the period 2014-2020.
Close-up of an economic impact assessment: Integrity and implementation of the EU ETS (No 6/2015) The EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) differs in some ways from other policies and programmes that we are considering as it does not receive significant funding from the EU budget.
However, it has a very significant impact on the implementation of policies in the EU and on the quality of life of citizens.
The EU ETS was introduced in 2005 and is often referred to as a reference model for the development of climate change strategies and emissions trading systems elsewhere in the world.
Therefore, an appropriate framework would be expected to ensure market regulation and supervision, legal certainty and systems for managing essential information.
The basic structures of the implementation systems should also be sufficiently sound.
At the end of 2013, our auditors examined the framework for protecting the integrity of the EU ETS and the systems for the effective implementation of the programme at the Commission and in the Member States by phase II (end of 2012).
The audit was carried out on the basis of the risks associated with the creation of a functioning market for the implementation of EU climate protection policy and the difficulty of controlling an activity that is inconceivable ("How do you measure hot air?").
Our auditors examined whether the EU ETS was adequately managed.
They not only carried out file checks and interviews with officials involved in the management of the EU ETS at the European Commission in Brussels, but also visited the competent authorities in five Member States (Germany, France, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom).
In addition, documents were reviewed and experts were consulted in two other countries (Greece and Spain).
Further evidence was obtained by verifying the documents of national authorities relating to 150 installations selected in these seven Member States.
The auditors were not able to monitor the installations on the ground, since they did not receive EU funding in the context of the emissions trading scheme, and the Court did not therefore have the access rights required for the audit.
The evidence obtained from our auditors indicated a lack of supervision of the emissions market and insufficient cooperation between regulatory authorities.
For example, our auditors found that the legal definition of allowances should be clarified and that the procedures for opening ETS accounts in the Union registry and for the monitoring of transactions were not appropriate to ensure adequate controls against abuse.
The initial situation, however, was difficult: Member States were not able to effectively monitor cross-border transactions, because they did not have direct access to the central database, and the Commission was unable to monitor transactions because there was no legal basis for this.
Furthermore, our auditors found that the emissions monitoring and reporting systems were not harmonised and that there were weaknesses in the control and that the Commission's support, as well as the Commission's and the Member States' reporting, were inadequate.
From their findings, the auditors concluded that the framework for the protection of market integrity is not sufficiently sound and that, at the last stage, there were significant weaknesses in the implementation, which in some cases require further measures at the present stage.
However, our report also clearly shows that this innovative system has been continuously improved.
At the time of the publication of the report, the debate on possible reforms of the EU ETS, which focused on the effectiveness of the system and on the handling of excess allowances, was still ongoing.
However, in our report, we point out that attention must also be paid to the fundamental questions of market integrity and implementation, so that the EU can be confident that this core instrument is sufficiently suited to meet the expectations of emission reductions and low-carbon technologies.
We have made some practical recommendations to the Commission and the authorities of the Member States to improve market integrity and to implement the system in order to make the EU ETS a more effective instrument to achieve the climate targets by 2020 and beyond.
The Commission agreed with the report's recommendation that key remaining issues with regard to the regulation and supervision of the emissions market should be addressed in order to improve market integrity where appropriate and to ensure that many improvements have already been made to Phase III (2013-2020), taking into account in particular our comments.
The report sparked a great deal of media interest and was presented by EU-accredited journalists at a press conference in Brussels.
In the EU and worldwide, the press reported that the EU ETS needs to be more closely monitored to improve the carbon market and that the system must be more protected against market abuse, including the continuing risk of VAT fraud.
As is customary with all special reports, the Member responsible for the report – Kevin Cardiff in this case – presented the report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and, in addition, to Parliament's and the Council's environmental committees in order to inform them of the Court's findings, which may serve as the basis for future decisions on relevant rules and regulations.
Parliament and the Council welcomed our comments and recommendations and will take into account future proposals to improve the integrity and implementation of the system.
Examiner team (from left to right): Stefan Den Engelsen, Emese Féss Ravenna, Kevin Cardiff and Colm Friel.
Our activities 24 • Are the fisheries partnership agreements well managed by the Commission?
(No 11/2015) – This special report examines whether the agreements are well managed.
The auditors assessed the negotiation and implementation of the agreements, the Commission's monitoring of catches, and the selection and monitoring of the measures financed.
The investigation showed that while the agreements were generally well managed, the quantities negotiated were often higher than the quantities reported for previous periods.
This regularly leads to incomplete use.
Since the EU makes full payments regardless of the de facto fishing, the actual costs were often higher than the negotiated price.
Furthermore, there was a lack of reliable, consistent and complete data on the actual catches of the EU fleet.
The Commission should take into account previous usage rates when negotiating new schemes, make payments more linked to actual catches, and ensure that the new catch database is fully used by the flag Member States and contains reliable catch data that can be monitored and kept up-to-date.
The agreements aim to ensure the sustainability of the fisheries concerned by allowing EU vessels to catch the surplus resources of the partner countries only.
However, the auditors doubt that the so-called "surplus" can be reliably calculated, as reliable information is lacking. • The EU priority of promoting a knowledge-based economy in rural areas has been compromised by the inadequate management of knowledge transfer and advisory activities (No. 12/2015) – the special report examines in particular whether management and control systems exist to effectively implement knowledge transfer and advisory activities in the area of rural development.
The audit found that the implementation of EU-funded training and counselling programmes in rural areas is too expensive, often leading to the duplication of existing programmes and favouring established training providers.
The auditors identified poor administrative procedures in the Member States and insufficient monitoring by the European Commission.
The Member States relied too much on the proposals of the trainers and considered any type of training to be 'good' and eligible for public support.
The lack of a fair and transparent selection led to a long-standing and established provider being repeatedly selected and receiving a large part of the funding.
Member States should select training projects which meet the skill needs identified in a recurring analysis and should avoid the selection procedures being determined by the providers.
The EU supports rural training and advisory projects with support from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development.
For the period 2007-2013, EUR 1.3 billion was allocated to these projects.
Together with co-financing by the Member States, the total public funding amounted to EUR 2.2 billion.
The corresponding amount could amount to more than EUR 4 billion in the period 2014-2020.
Our activities 25 • The cost-effectiveness of EU rural development aid for non-productive agricultural investments (No 20/2015) – This special report will determine in particular whether non-productive investments in agriculture (NPI) are cost-effective and contribute to the achievement of the target of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development to manage agricultural land sustainably in the 2007-2013 programming period.
The auditors concluded that although NPI aid contributed to the achievement of the objectives, it was not cost-effective, as the costs of 75 % of the projects to be visited were not as high as that of the projects to be visited.
Many of these projects have been fully funded by public funds, despite their clearly profitable characteristics, and the auditors visited four Member States which have spent a total of 80% of the total EU budget on NPIs: Portugal, Denmark, the United Kingdom (England) and Italy (Apulia).
Only five of the 28 projects audited proved to be cost-effective.
The report warns that a lack of cost efficiency may not be limited to a sample, as the problems identified were due to shortcomings in the management and control systems of the Member States.
Non-productive investments are investments that do not generate significant returns or revenues, nor significantly increase the value of the beneficiary's operation, but that have a positive impact on the environment. • EU rural infrastructure support: The funds could be used significantly more efficiently (No 25/2015) – This special report examines whether the European Commission and Member States have achieved a good cost-benefit ratio by financing roads, water supply systems, schools and other institutions through rural development programmes.
The audit showed that while some infrastructure projects have made a positive contribution to rural areas, Member States and the Commission have achieved a low cost-benefit ratio in shared management.
Much more could have been achieved with the available resources, and the need for EU rural development resources has not always been clearly explained by the Member States.
The risk of supporting projects that would have been implemented without EU funds has not been effectively controlled.
The Commission has been pursuing a more proactive and coordinated approach since 2012.
If properly implemented, this should lead to better financial management in the period 2014-2020.
Under rural development programmes, EUR 13 billion of EU funding was allocated to rural infrastructure from 2007 to 2013.
Our activities 26 100 80 60 40 20 0 Foreign policy EUR 65 billion 6% Europe in the world The heading "Europe in the world" covers the EU's external relations (the "foreign policy"), including enlargement issues, as well as EU development and humanitarian aid.
For the 2014-2020 programming period, the EU allocated 6% of its planned total expenditure, i.e. EUR 65 billion, to these objectives.
The budget for 2015 was EUR 7.5 billion.
Additional funds will be made available through the European Development Fund, which is not part of the EU budget and is therefore not part of the Multiannual Financial Framework. • EU Police Mission in Afghanistan: Mixed Results (No 7/2015) – This special report assesses whether the EU Police Mission (EUPOL) has been well planned and coordinated, whether it has received appropriate operational support and appropriate guidance, whether it has contributed to progress in the Afghan National Police, and whether its exit has been prepared in appropriate form.
The audit showed that EUPOL has met the goal of contributing to the development of a sustainable and efficient civilian police force under Afghan ownership.
In an environment characterised by the lack of a fully functioning Afghan police force, a high illiteracy rate and widespread corruption within the Afghan police and judicial systems, EUPOL has been able to contribute to the reform of the Ministry of the Interior and to the professionalisation of the National Police.
However, given the continuing system weaknesses in the police and judicial sector in Afghanistan, there is a risk that the results achieved by EUPOL and in the Afghan police sector in general will not remain in place after the completion of the mission at the end of 2016.
The total cost of EUPOL in the period May 2007 to December 2014 amounted to almost EUR 400 million, with security related costs accounting for almost a third of this amount.
At the end of 2014, the EU had a total of 32 missions under the Common Security and Defence Policy, 16 of which are completed and completed and 16 are still under way.
Our activities 27 • EU support for the fight against torture and the abolition of the death penalty (No 9/2015) – This special report assesses whether the prevention of torture, the rehabilitation of victims of torture and the abolition of the death penalty under the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights are effectively promoted.
The audit showed that while the EU-funded projects have an impact, the projects are often not sufficiently targeted and have a limited scope for action, as the funds are distributed according to the watering-pot principle.
Although the allocation of funds was generally appropriate, the Commission did not take sufficient account of the human rights priorities of each country.
The projects were often not well coordinated with other EU policies such as development aid and political dialogue.
They were generally carried out by dedicated and competent organisations.
The reviewers' recommendations related to the targeting of financial resources, better coordination with other EU actions, selection and improvement of project proposals, performance measurement and sustainability of the beneficiary organisations.
The European Union operates through diplomatic channels and grants grants to non-governmental organisations through the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights.
Over the period 2007-2013, around 180 grants totalling more than EUR 100 million were granted to projects to combat torture and the abolition of the death penalty. • EU support to wood-producing countries under the FLEGT Action Plan (No 13/2015) – This special report explores whether the Commission has managed well the support provided under the EU's FLEGT Action Plan to combat illegal logging.
At the same time, the panel identified the importance of the importance of the importance of ensuring that the implementation of the action plan is that the action plan, while being a welcome initiative, is the result of a lack of overall implementation.
Aid was not granted to wood producing countries on the basis of clear criteria and its effect was diluted due to the large number of countries competing for aid.
The countries concerned have made very different progress.
Insufficient progress is due in particular to the lack of adequate planning by the Commission and the lack of clear priorities in allocating funds to wood-producing countries.
The auditors recommended that the Commission set clear objectives and set the means to achieve them.
Four Member States still have to fully implement the EU Wood Regulation, which has been introduced to prevent the import of illegal wood into the EU market.
In the period 2003-2013, 35 countries received EUR 300 million under the Action Plan.
Two of these countries, Indonesia and Ghana, made good progress towards a complete authorisation system for their timber.
In general, however, little progress was made, and many countries had difficulties in overcoming the obstacles to responsible policy-making.
In the 12 years since the Commission introduced the Action Plan, no partner country has succeeded in establishing a fully recognised authorisation system.
Our activities 28 • The ACP Investment Facility: does it offer added value?
(No 14/2015) – This Special Report assesses whether the Investment Facility has added value for EU development cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries.
The audit showed that the Investment Facility really adds value to the EU's development cooperation with ACP countries and fits well into the EU's policy objectives.
At the end of 2014, credit lines accounted for 28% of the Facility's portfolio, compared to 14% at the end of 2010.
The increased share reflects the continuing importance of the long-term financing provided by the Facility.
In a positive sense, the Facility also acted as a catalyst by mobilising additional funds.
However, the auditors noted that the contractual obligation to inform the final beneficiaries of the financing of the European Investment Bank (EIB) or the Investment Facility is not always met and that technical assistance is not always targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises.
They made recommendations to address these problems.
The ACP Investment Facility, established in 2003, receives its capital from the European Development Fund and is managed by the EIB.
The Facility has approved development projects worth EUR 5.7 billion over the past ten years.
The Facility provides medium to long-term financing to deliver sustainable economic, social and environmental benefits. • Promoting renewable energy in East Africa from the ACP-EU Energy Facility (No. 15/2015) – This Special Report examines the successful use of the Energy Facility to improve access of poor populations to renewable energy in East Africa.
The audit showed that some significant achievements have been achieved, but that the Facility needs to be monitored even better.
The Commission has made a good selection of the proposed projects, but has not monitored the progress of the projects closely enough.
The reports of project managers were of different quality and the Commission did not make any effort to enforce the reporting obligations.
For projects known to have been affected by serious problems, Commission staff made too few on-site visits and reviews in the monitoring in order to complete the information provided by the persons responsible.
The report made recommendations for more stringent selection, more monitoring and improved sustainability of future projects.
A total of 268 million euros were granted by mid-2014, of which 106 million euros were granted to projects in East Africa, which had by far the least access to electricity in Africa.
Our activities 29 • Analysis of the risks associated with a result-oriented approach to EU development and cooperation activities (No. 21/2015) – The Special Report was prepared in the light of the increased interest of the recent shift of EU development and co-operation policies from activities to results.
The auditors identified nine key risk areas: a fragmented outcome terminology or a logical chain between measures, outputs, effects and effects; increased complexity due to the inclusion of cross-cutting issues in EU programmes; the lack of harmonisation of instruments for assistance, the outcome framework and the accountability structures of development partners; weaknesses in evaluation and outcome reporting; a lack of consolidated reports or an overview of the results obtained through EU assistance; a lack of adequate, relevant, reliable and up-to-date data; a focus on the budgetary outcome as an objective; and changes in the context of measures.
The audit showed that these risk areas have been correctly identified by the Commission in numerous different documents.
However, further action is needed to exploit the full potential of the Commission's initiatives and to improve the EU's development and cooperation results.
Against this background, a number of recommendations have been made, which the Commission should take into account.
Our activities 30 100 80 60 40 20 0 Financial and economic governance The EU framework for economic governance aims to address problematic financial and economic trends, such as excessive government deficits or sovereign debt, which can dampen growth and threaten the sustainability of public finances.
Part of this framework is the establishment of the EU Banking Union.
According to the report on the European Banking Authority in 2014, this special report was the second one we published on the subject.
In 2008, Europe faced a financial crisis that turned into a sovereign debt crisis.
The sovereign debt crisis was a result of a variety of factors, including a weak banking supervision, inadequate fiscal policies and the difficulties encountered by major financial institutions (as well as the subsequent costs of the rescue of which the general public was responsible).
The crisis hit the EU Member States in two waves, the first in 2008-2009 the countries outside the euro area and later spread to the euro area itself.
Our auditors examined how the European Commission managed the financial assistance granted under the Balance of Payments Facility and the European Financial Stability Mechanism during the crisis and for which the Commission raised funds on the capital markets, the EU budget being a guarantee.
The audit covered the financial assistance granted to Hungary, Latvia, Romania, Ireland and Portugal, with particular emphasis on the role of the Commission in these programmes.
In addition, our auditors analysed the Commission's cooperation with its partners – the European Central Bank (ECB) in Frankfurt and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Washington.
They obtained audit evidence through in-depth reviews and analyses of documents and through discussions with Commission, national authorities, the ECB and the IMF.
The partners and decisions taken at EU political level were not the subject of the examination.
The audit showed that the European Commission was not prepared for the first requests for financial assistance during the 2008 financial crisis, for the warning signals were overlooked, for the most part explaining the initially clear weaknesses in its administrative processes.
The auditors identified four key problem areas of the Commission's crisis management: different approaches, limited quality control, insufficient monitoring and lack of documentation.
For instance, they found several examples where countries were not treated equally in comparable situations; in some programmes, overall, the conditions for assistance were less strict and thus easier to meet.
They also found that the Commission teams had insufficiently reviewed important documents, that the underlying calculations were not reviewed by anyone outside the team, that the work of the experts was not closely monitored and that the verification procedure was not sufficiently documented.
Our activities 31 However, according to the auditors, the Commission, despite the lack of experience, has succeeded in fulfilling its new administrative tasks and in launching the funding programmes relevant to the reform process, which, in view of the time constraints, has to be regarded as a success.
In addition, the auditors noted that, in the course of the crisis, the Commission was increasingly building up internal expertise and cooperating with a wide range of stakeholders in the countries concerned and that, in the course of subsequent reforms, improved macroeconomic surveillance was also introduced.
For example, the targets of the programmes were met, the adjusted deficit targets were largely met, the structural deficits improved and the Member States met most of the conditions of their programmes, albeit with some delays.
In most cases, countries continued the reforms required by programme conditions, and in four of the five countries, the current account adjustment was faster than expected.
Our auditors pointed out that there are still a number of weaknesses and that the Commission must improve its procedures for managing financial assistance.
We have made a number of recommendations to the European Commission to ensure that financial assistance will be better managed in the future when Member States that have difficulties ask for support.
The report has received a broad response, particularly in the European media, but also in the United States and Australia.
Like our other special reports, Mr Baudilio Tomé Muguruza, our member responsible for the report, will present it to the addressees in the European Parliament and in the Council.
Test team (from left to right): Didier Lebrun, Ignacio García de Parada, Kristian Sniter, Josef Jindra, Giuseppe Diana, Baudilio Tomé Muguruza, Adrian Savin, Daniela Hristova, Zacharias Kolias, Marco Fians and Daniel Costa de Magalhães.
Our activities 32 • EU supervision of credit rating agencies is based on sound foundations, but is not yet fully effective (No. 22/2015) – This special report examines whether the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) has successfully established itself in the EU as the supervisor of credit rating agencies.
The 2008 financial crisis has put credit rating agencies and their influence on financial markets more and more on the agenda.
At that time, rating agencies in Europe were hardly regulated.
The audit showed that while ESMA has laid good groundwork, its rules and guidelines are not complete and that there are still significant risks to be addressed.
The auditors found that ESMA was able to shorten the average length of the registration procedure, but the procedure remains complex.
Although rating methods should be strict, systematic and consistent and be subject to validation, ESMA's main focus in its activities is to determine whether the methods are strict.
The current Eurosystem credit assessment framework does not ensure that all credit rating agencies registered with ESMA operate on an equal basis, creating a two-class market structure that puts small credit rating agencies in an unfavourable position.
The auditors made a number of recommendations to ESMA regarding the registration procedure, the traceability of the risk identification procedure, supervisory procedures and IT systems. • Technical assistance for Greece: Improved provision of assistance requires a stronger outcome orientation (No. 19/2015) – This special report examines whether the Task Force for Greece has fulfilled its mandate, and whether technical assistance for Greece has contributed effectively to the reform process.
The Task Force was set up by the Commission in 2011 to support the economic adjustment of Greece with numerous technical assistance measures.
The auditors examined whether the Task Force had fulfilled its mandate and whether the technical assistance had contributed effectively to the reform.
They obtained evidence from the Commission, service providers, Greek ministries and other stakeholders.
The audit showed that the Greek authorities received technical assistance under the mandate, but that the reforms have not always made sufficient progress.
Due to the urgency of the situation, the Task Force was set up in the shortest time and without a full analysis of other options or a budget of its own.
The Task Force did not have a bundled, comprehensive strategy document to provide technical assistance or identify priorities.
The assistance provided was relevant and was largely in line with programme requirements, and the Task Force developed a flexible and diversified implementation system. However, there were vulnerabilities at project level.
Greek Parliament building, Athens, Greece.
Our activities 33 Others 8.2% 100 80 60 40 20 0 VAT 12.8% TEM 13.3% GNI 65.7% Revenue The EU budget is financed mainly by revenue from three types of own resources.
These include own resources based on GNI and VAT and traditional own resources (TEM), in particular customs duties on products imported into the EU and sugar levies.
In addition, the EU receives taxes levied on EU staff salaries, contributions from third countries to certain EU programmes, and fines from companies that violate EU rules and regulations.
EU expenditure must be fully covered by revenue.
In 2015, revenue amounted to 141.3 billion euros. • Combating intra-Community VAT fraud: Further action is needed (No 24/2015) – This special report examines whether the EU is effectively combating intra-Community VAT fraud.
Organised crime means that the European Union eludes VAT revenues of between EUR 40 billion and EUR 60 billion per year.
As exports of goods and services from one EU Member State to another are exempt from VAT, criminals in both Member States can fraudulently evade taxes.
This will prevent both the countries concerned and the EU from obtaining revenue.
The audit identified significant weaknesses indicating insufficient effectiveness of the current system.
In order to combat intra-Community VAT fraud, the EU has a large number of instruments, but some of them need to be improved or applied more uniformly.
In most Member States visited, there are no effective cross-checks between customs and tax data; Member States' tax authorities are exchanging VAT information, but there are problems with the accuracy, completeness and timeliness of the data; there is a lack of cooperation and cross-competence between administrative, judicial and law enforcement authorities.
Action must be taken by the Member States, the European Parliament and the European Commission to improve the system.
Our activities 34 opinions in 2015 We also contribute to improving EU financial management in our opinions on proposals for new or amended legislation with financial implications.
These opinions will be delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and will be used by the legislative authorities – Parliament and the Council – in their work.
Furthermore, we can, on our own initiative, issue position papers and analyses on other issues.
In 2015, we published eight opinions on a number of important areas: • Opinion No 1/2015 on a proposal to amend the Regulation on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union; • Opinion No 2/2015 on a proposal to amend the financial regulation of the Community Plant Variety Office; • Opinion No 3/2015 on a proposal for the financial regulation of the Single Resolution Committee; • Opinion No 4/2015 on a proposal for a Regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) (further details in the box); • Opinion No 5/2015 on a proposal to amend the Regulation of the Committee on Budgets of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market; • Opinion No 6/2015 on a proposal to amend the financial regulation of the Committee for the Single Resolution; • Opinion No 7/2015 on a proposal to amend the Regulation on traditional, VAT and SDO own resources, as well as measures to provide the necessary cash resources; • Opinion No 8/2015 on a proposal to amend the Financial Regulation for the 11th European Development Fund.
Focus: Statement on EFSI In response to the decline in investment since 2007, the Commission launched an "Investitions offensive for Europe" in November 2014.
The Investment Plan is based on the logic of intervention that there is a high investment need in Europe and numerous economically viable projects for which sources of funding are sought.
The challenge is to make productive use of savings and financial liquidity to promote sustainable employment and growth in Europe.
The investment offensive is to be realized without burdening national budgets and new debt.
The Commission expects to create between 1 million and 1.3 million new jobs and mobilise additional (mainly long-term) investment funds of at least EUR 315 billion in the period 2015-2017 from this investment plan to its full implementation. The Commission's initiative is in high expectation.
In order to contribute to the success of this initiative, we drew attention in our opinion to issues relating to the governance and legal framework, the rules of accountability and external audit, and the financial liabilities to public budgets.
We also pointed out that where the EU cooperates with the private sector, there should be adequate transparency and accountability for public funds.
The performance of these instruments should also be measured by the extent to which the objectives of the activities financed are achieved.
We pointed out that the agreements between the Commission and the European Investment Bank are not clearly described in the proposal.
Our opinion has been taken into account by the regulatory authorities in Regulation (EU) 2015/1017 on the EFSI.
Our activities 35 Contribution to EU accountability through high-level events and conferences We hold conferences on topics where we have identified risks and where our audit expertise can contribute to EU accountability, thereby increasing awareness of the importance of sound financial management and control of EU finances.
In 2015, we organised the two conferences described below, which correspond to our strategic goal of working with our partners in the process of EU accountability.
During the year, we also organised seminars with internal and external experts on our premises to share knowledge on recent developments in EU policies and to use information to plan and carry out our audits.
For example, a seminar was held in October focusing on the progress made in the reform of the common agricultural policy, and the seminar was attended by representatives of the Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development.
The Court's Conference on Energy Security in the EU On 5 May 2015, we held a conference on energy security in the EU in Brussels to provide stakeholders from EU institutions, Member States, the energy industry and universities with a neutral and independent platform on which to discuss the challenges facing the EU in the field of energy security.
Our President Vítor Caldeira opened the conference, and Maroš Šefčovič, one of the Commission's Vice Presidents, gave an introductory lecture.
Our members Szabolcs Fazakas and Phil Wynn Owen From left to right: Szabolcs Fazakas, Maroš Šefčovič, Vítor Caldeira and Phil Wynn Owen. headed the conference, which included panel discussions on the two main areas: obstacles to the completion of the internal energy market and Ukraine's important contribution to European energy supply as an important transit country.
We organised this conference because the EU is facing a number of major challenges in this area, which are related to each other.
These include the creation of an internal energy market to improve the competitiveness of the European economy, the fight against climate change and the increase of energy security.
In our tests, we are increasingly focusing on energy and climate issues.
We have already produced special reports on issues such as the internal energy market and the security of energy supply, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
In addition, further reports, including EU support to Ukraine and EU spending on climate action, and a landscape analysis on energy and climate issues in the EU are planned in this area.
Our aim is to add value to the EU's energy policy, and with this conference we have shown that we also want to support a democratic debate on these issues.
Our activities 36 Conference of the Court on the Future of Development Assistance From 20 to 21 October 2015, on the occasion of the European Year of Development, the adoption of the new United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council, we organised an international conference on European Development Assistance after 2015.
In the beginning of the two-day conference chaired by our member Danièle Lamarque, our President Vítor Caldeira took the floor, followed by the Luxembourg Minister of Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Affairs Romain Schneider, on behalf of the EU Presidency, and by the President of the Development Committee of the European Parliament Linda McAvan, the EU Commissioner for Development Neven Mimica and the United Nations Under-Secretary-General Grete Faremo.
The conclusions of the conference were summarised by Marc Angel, the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign and European Affairs and the Defence of the Luxembourg Chamber of Deputies.
The EU is the world's largest donor of development aid and cooperates with many public and private partners, including international organisations, foundations, non-governmental organisations and states.
It is becoming increasingly important to ensure the effectiveness of the aid, which can be achieved by strictly respecting the criteria for its allocation and evaluation.
In this context, the Court plays a major role.
The new Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations for the period 2015-2030 are more ambitious than the previous Millennium Development Goals, and are "incentived to think and act differently."
The participants agreed that development aid must be aligned with environmental, energy and migration policies and other policies and that new stakeholders must be involved.
In addition, development agencies need to adapt to the increasing diversification of funding and financial instruments: innovative funding instruments contribute to a greater leverage effect and a greater convergence with market conditions, but also make it more difficult to make financial decisions and to determine the added value of aid.
The European Commission gave a presentation on what a results-oriented budget should look like, on which a clearer definition of how EU funds are spent and on what results are achieved.
The Court also participates in the joint interinstitutional working group set up for this purpose.
Our activities 37 Relations with the addressees The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union The value of our contribution to EU accountability depends to a large extent on the benefits of our key partners in the legislative and accountability process from our work results and products.
These partners are the political bodies responsible for the public oversight of the use of EU funds: the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and the national parliaments.
In line with our strategy for the 2013-2017 period, we have given particular attention to improving our working relations with Parliament and the Council.
The President and the Members of the Court have regular contacts with the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT), which is our main partner.
In 2015, President Vítor Caldeira presented our annual work programme and our annual reports in two meetings of the CONT. He also presented the annual reports in two plenary sessions of Parliament and participated in the discharge debate.
At the initiative of Ville Itälä, our institutional relations member, President Caldeira presented our 2015 work programme at the Conference of Committee Chairs and was informed of its focus areas in order to plan our 2016 work programme.
In October 2015, the CONT held a working visit to the Court, continuing the practice of annual bilateral meetings at the Court's premises in Luxembourg. In addition, our representatives took part in visits to Member States (Greece) and beneficiary countries (Serbia) organised by the CONT.
In 2015, our members represented the Court in 29 CONT meetings to discuss our annual and special reports.
In addition, our members presented nine special reports to the committees concerned.
We also organised a joint meeting with Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment to discuss issues of common interest and began to work with Parliament's Scientific Service to promote a more efficient exchange of knowledge between our audit chambers and the Service.
We also worked more closely with the Council to strengthen and improve relations with the Council and its respective Presidency.
In November, President Caldeira and Pierre Gramegna, Luxembourg's Minister of Finance and President of the Council "Economic and Financial Affairs" met during the Luxembourg Presidency to discuss the follow-up of the 2014 discharge procedure on the basis of our 2014 Annual Report.
We presented our work programme for 2015 and 15 special reports to various Council working groups.
We also presented the various chapters of the annual report to the Council's Committee on Budgets as the basis for the discharge procedure.
Annual meeting of Court representatives with the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament.
Our activities 38 Strengthening partnerships with national parliaments and authorities During the year, we worked closely with our addressees in the Member States.
We systematically informed the national parliaments of our work.
In addition, the President and the Court members presented the annual report to the national parliaments and authorities of most Member States.
We also held meetings with representatives of national parliaments and authorities at the Court's premises and in the Member States.
We continued our initiative launched in 2014 to organise high-level visits to EU Member States to deepen our partnerships with national authorities in charge of managing and auditing EU finances.
In April 2015, a high-level delegation from the Court visited Poland to highlight the importance of public financial control and accountability for EU funds, to improve the Court's visibility in this respect and to initiate a dialogue with the relevant Polish authorities.
These included meetings with Polish President Bronisław Komorowski, head of Prime Minister's Registry, both chambers of parliament, state authorities and local authorities, and in particular the SAIs of Poland.
The discussions focused mainly on accountability and public control, as well as on our latest landscape analysis of EU accountability and public financial control rules.
Meetings with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development provided an opportunity to discuss our landscape analyses, the results of relevant audits and best practices.
Our delegation visited two projects financed by EU funds. One is managed by the public authorities, the other by a private beneficiary.
The high-level visit to Poland was complemented by visits to the Czech Republic (June 2015) and Bulgaria (November 2015).
In the Czech Republic, our representatives met with the President of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman, the Prime Minister and representatives of Parliament.
They also attended a joint meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of audits on the common agricultural policy and cohesion of the previous programming period, which were relevant to the Czech Republic.
During this visit, our representatives contributed to the conference on electronic data and its importance for future audits organised by the SAIs of the Czech Republic.
During the visit to Bulgaria, our delegation met the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr Rose Plevneliev, the Prime Minister, Mr Boyko Borissov, the President of Parliament, Ms Tsetska Tsacheva and other representatives of Parliament.
In addition, the members of the delegation attended a conference on the importance of the external audit of effective public sector management, which was held on the 135th anniversary of the establishment of the SAIs of Bulgaria and on the 20th anniversary of the resumption of their activities.
From left to right: Vítor Caldeira (President of the European Court of Auditors), Krzysztof Kwiatkowski (President of the SAIs of Poland) and Augustyn Kubik (Polish Member of the European Court of Auditors).
Our activities 39 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKBs) mainly through the contact committee of the SAIs of the EU Member States; • the network of the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • international organisations for public financial control bodies, and in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAIs) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAIs).
Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States In accordance with the EU Treaty, the Court and the national audit bodies are working together with confidence, while maintaining their independence.
Cooperation with the SAIs of the EU Member States is actively carried out within the Contact Committee, including an annual meeting and various working groups, networks and task forces dealing with specific issues of common interest.
In 2015, the Contact Committee met in Riga.
At its meeting, the members of the Contact Committee discussed the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI), the prevention and control of irregularities and fraud, and the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
Questions on the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM) were also addressed.
The Contact Committee adopted a declaration on the rules on accountability and financial control of the Single Supervisory Mechanism addressed to national parliaments and governments and to the EU institutions and bodies concerned.
The Contact Committee also agreed with the proposal to carry out parallel audits of the introduction of the SSM and the contribution of the Structural Funds to the Europe 2020 strategy and the underlying risks to the sustainability of public finances.
In November 2015, the Court invited a launch meeting of the Working Group on Structural Funds VII on the establishment of a work plan for a new multilateral parallel audit in order to identify the extent to which EU funding in the fields of education and employment makes an effective contribution to the Europe 2020 strategy.
Network of Supreme Audit Institutions of Candidate Countries and Potential Candidate Countries Cooperation between the Court and the SAIs of Candidate Countries and Potential Candidate Countries takes place primarily through a network1 comparable to the Contact Committee.
In the course of 2015, we continued to support the network in conducting a parallel energy efficiency impact assessment.
The last workshop on this project took place in May 2015 in the premises of the Court in Luxembourg.
The Court is involved in the preparation of new projects to start in 2016 and focus on audit and audit of the accounts.
In May 2015, representatives of the Court took part in an event celebrating the 90th anniversary of the founding of the SAIs of Albania.
On this occasion, President Caldeira and President of the Republic of Albania Bujar Nishani met.
Eight examiners from the SAI network participated in our 2015 internship program.
1 In January 2015, six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and a potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina) were members of the network.
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has been participating as an observer in the network. * This designation does not affect positions on status and is in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence.
Our activities 40 Multilateral (INTOSAI – EUROSAI) and bilateral cooperation In 2015, we continued our active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI, especially in the respective working bodies.
In November 2016, with effect from the International Congress of Supreme Audit Institutions (INCOSAI), the Court was entrusted with the deputy chair of the INTOSAI Technical Standards Committee at the end of 2016.
We also responded to the request of the Ukrainian SAIs, who are chair of the Task Force on the Audit of Disaster Relief, to host the first meeting of the Task Force.
The Court is also an active member of the EUROSAI Task Force "Test and Ethics", which aims to promote ethical behaviour and integrity in SAIs and public institutions.
The main objective of the Task Force is to establish and strengthen a framework for the promotion of ethical behaviour by providing the SAIs with appropriate practice-oriented guidance and tools to support their day-to-day audit activities.
We attended the 5th joint EUROSAI-ARABOSAI conference, which dealt with the supervision of plans for state rescue, and the 2nd Young EUROSAI conference, which gave young examiners the opportunity to discuss issues on current issues.
In addition, we visited the Global World Leadership Forum of SAIs, the main topic of which was the role of public sector auditors in 2030.
The Court maintains good bilateral relations with other SAIs.
In 2015, for example, our delegation participated in an international seminar organised by the SAIs of Poland for auditors from Georgia, the Republic of Moldova and Ukraine in Warsaw.
The delegation members spoke to the SAIs of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and the Slovak Republic about their experience of developing and developing capacity to prepare for accession to the EU and gave training on our compliance and business audit methods.
Cooperation with SAIs within the framework of international peer reviews Peer reviews are a common method of supporting best practices and promoting quality assurance.
The INTOSAI peer reviews subcommittee is responsible for updating the ISSAI 5600 peer review guide (ISSAI stands for International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions).
In 2015, we contributed decisively to the revision of this guide, which will be presented to the 2016 INCOSAI Congress for adoption.
We also played a leading role in the international peer reviews of the SAIs of Latvia, Spain and Switzerland.
The SAI of Latvia's technical assessment was very comprehensive and was based on methods and methods for auditing the accounting and compliance and economic audit as well as on the effectiveness of the support functions.
The expert evaluation of the SAIs of Spain, led by the SAIs of Portugal, also covered many aspects of the functioning of the SAIs.
We were the sole assessor of the SAIs of Switzerland.
In the framework of the assessment, the appropriateness of the strategy of these SAIs as well as their planning and quality control processes were assessed.
Our Management 41 The College of the Court The College of the Court is composed of one member from each Member State.
Members shall be appointed by the Council, after consulting the European Parliament, for a term of six years, in accordance with the proposals of each Member State.
Under the Treaty, the members shall carry out their duties in full independence and for the general good of the European Union.
The President shall be elected by the members of the Committee from among the members for a period of three years.
The terms of office of the President and the members shall be renewable.
Most of the members are assigned to one of the five chambers; the chambers accept examination reports, opinions and position papers, and take decisions on strategic and administrative issues, to the extent to which they extend the scope of their decisions.
In addition, each member is primarily responsible for his or her own duties in the audit area.
The member shall coordinate the respective audit teams with the support of his/her cabinet.
It then presents the reports, opinions or position papers for adoption by the Chamber and/or by the entire College of Court and then by Parliament, the Council and other relevant addressees, including the media.
In selected cases and at the initiative of the members, a report may also be presented to the authorities of the Member States concerned.
One of the members – Ville Itälä – is responsible for institutional relations.
In 2015, the Council of the European Union, acting on a proposal from the Member State and after consulting the European Parliament, appointed Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) a Member of the Court.
The mandate shall apply from 1 September 2015 to 28 February 2018, i.e. for the remainder of the term of office of the previous Danish member Henrik Otbo, who died suddenly in February 2015.
The College of the Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2015. The College of the Court of Auditors of the Court of Auditors of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities of the European Communities, of the European Communities of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities, of the European Communities of the European Communities, of the European Communities of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the European Communities
Our management 42 Organigram of the European Court of Auditors President Chamber I Preservation and management of natural resources Chamber II Structural policies, transport and energy Chamber III External policies Chamber IV Revenue, research and internal policies and European Union institutions and bodies CEAD Chamber Coordination, evaluation, quality assurance and development Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Portugal Augustyn KUBIK Poland Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Karel PINXTEN Belgium Milan Martin CVIKL Slovenia Igors LUDBORŽS Latvia Jan KINŠT Czech Republic Ladislav BALKO Slovakia Szabolcs FAZAKAS Hungary Louis GALEA Malta Lazaros S. LAZAROS Cyprus Kersti KALJULAID Estonia Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria Hans Gustaf WESSBERG Sweden Pietro RUSSO Italy Kevin CARDIFF Rasa BUDBERGYTJ Lithuania George PUFAN Romania Danièle LAMARQUE France Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA Spain Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Phil WYNN VILLETHEN DOIN DYHEN BILLIN CYIN BENIN DYEN GROAN DYYAY BIN BHEN
Our management 43 Court strategy for 2013-2017: continuous progress The goal of our five-year strategy is to maximise the value of our contribution to the EU's public accountability.
Our main priorities for achieving this goal are set out in the following figure: Many of the initiatives set out in the strategy have already been implemented.
We have expanded the range of outputs, intensified and expanded our relationships with our addressees, accelerated our audit procedures, and improved the way we measure our own performance.
In 2015, the Court decided to reform its organisational structure.
In this way, we will take into account the recommendations of the European Parliament on the future role of the Court and the results of the international peer review procedure on our business audits conducted in 2014.
The Court's strategic priorities for 2013-2017 The Court's products are aimed at improving the level of the European Union's Union's 2013-2017 COOPERATION COOPERATION WITH OUR PARTNERS IN THE PROCESS OF THE THE CREATION OF THE COMMUNITY'S PROCESSING PROCESS THE COOPERATION OF THE CREATION OF THE PROCESS OF THE CREATION OF THE CREATION OF THE PROCESSING OF THE CREATION OF THE COOPERATION AND THE PROCESSING OF THE CREATION OF THE CREATION OF ITS COOPERATION AND ITS ACCENTANCE OF THE COMMUNITY 03 04 OPTIMAL USE OF THE OPERATIONAL THE CREATION OF THE ASSESSMENT OF THE PROFESSIONAL TESTING ORGANIZATION 01 05 02
Our management 44 Reform of the Court of OBJECTIVE 1 FURTHER ASSESSMENT OF THE AUDIT OBJECTIVE 2 INTRODUCTION OF THE OBJECTIVE OF AN INJECTIVE BASED ORGANISATION MODEL FLEXIBLE  INTRODUCTION OF FLEXIBLE PREPARATION OF RESOURCES FOR PREPARATIONAL AUDIT OBJECTIVES PERFORMANCE OF PRODUCTS BETTER COMMUNICATION ON OUR ROLE AND OUR WORK PREPARATION of the strategy for the period 2013-2017 Peer review by the SAIs of Germany, France and Sweden Report by the European Parliament on the future role of the Court of Auditors Preparation for a task-based organisational model Flexible and adaptable Court of Auditors 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 - 10 central actions - Consultation - Court decisions - General design - Detailed design - Pilot projects - In force from 1.1.2016 - Training and other measures IMPUIP OF A GROUNDPRINT
Our management 45 Flexible response in a rapidly changing environment We have developed a new work planning process that allows us to plan our work on the basis of existing priorities for the entire Court and a comprehensive risk assessment.
In planning our work, we now systematically take into account the views of the addressees in order to ensure the greatest possible relevance of our reports.
With the support of our institutional member, our President and Members will work with EU addressees, including the committees of the European Parliament.
Flexible provision of resources for key audit tasks We have organised our staff in flexible teams around specific tasks instead of in units in order to be able to assign tasks more easily to priority tasks.
This means that we can now use the right person for the right job and use that person's skills and potential to the full.
The reform also led to a tighter administration of the Court: Head of Unit became senior managers, who, under the leadership of the director, shared management tasks and shared their expertise in the areas of quality and supervision.
We also strengthen our expertise in audit areas and introduce knowledge transfer tools to further improve our knowledge management processes.
Timely delivery of products We have streamlined our testing procedures and simplified our task management so that we can deliver products promptly.
In recent years, we have constantly reduced the average time needed to prepare our special reports, and the reform will allow for a further reduction.
This is particularly important in the context of the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation.
Better communication about our role and work We have revised our annual report to refer to the headings of the multiannual financial framework and thus make it easier to use and read it more easily.
In the annual report, we are now reporting on the main areas of expenditure and the performance for several years.
Furthermore, we strengthened the functions in the areas of communication and relations with the addressees and discontinued a speaker.
Our Management 46 Measurement of Performance Since 2008, we have been using Central Performance Indicators (ZLI) to inform management of the progress made with regard to our objectives, to support the decision-making process and to provide information about the performance to our users.
They reflect our priorities and reflect our performance and accountability as a professional audit body.
The indicators are used to measure core parameters for the quality and impact of our work, with particular regard to the position of important recipients, as well as the efficiency and effectiveness of our resource use.
The ZLIs have been updated for the period covered by the 2013-2017 strategy.
Quality and impact of our work We evaluate the quality and impact of our reports on the basis of assessments by the addressees and by experts.
In addition, we measure our presence in the media.
We asked our main addressees – the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Council's Committee on Budgets, the main audited bodies of the Commission and the EU agencies, and the Presidents of the EU's ORCB – to assess the relevance and impact of our reports published in 2015 on the basis of a five-stage scale of "very low to "very high".
The replies show that 90% of our main recipients rate the value of our reports as relevant to their work (compared to 94% in 2014). 92% believe that our work has an impact (91% in 2014).
Evaluation by addressees 10% 21% 45% 24% 2% 0% very low 20% medium high 40% very high relevance of reportsProbable effect of reports 60% 80% 100% 6% 23% 45% 24%
Our management 47 expert reviews Every year, independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of our reports for quality assessment. In 2015, the reviewers assessed four special reports and the annual reports for the financial year 2014.
They assessed the quality of different aspects of the reports on the basis of a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired " (1) to "high-quality " (4).
The experts' assessments in 2015 were higher than ever in the last four years, with a total average of 3.3 for both reporting types.
Follow-up to recommendations We primarily contribute to improving the financial management of the EU by submitting recommendations to the Commission and other audited bodies in our reports.
Some recommendations can be implemented quickly, while others require more time due to their complexity.
We regularly check to what extent our recommendations have been implemented by the audited bodies.
By the end of 2015, 73% of the more than 600 recommendations we had made in 2012-2015 had been implemented.
This represents an increase in the implementation rate of 69% for the recommendations issued in 2011-2014 compared to the rate of implementation recorded in 2014.
Audits of Court Reports by experts 2012 2013 2014 2015 3.0 3.0 3.1 3.3 Quality assessment 01234 Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the year of levy 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% 91% 80 % 50 % 2012 2013 2014 2015
It concerns the strategic objective of raising awareness of the Court, its products, its audit findings and conclusions.
In 2015, we identified some 3,400 online articles related to our special reports, annual reports and the Court in general.
54% of these covered our audit reports; in the other articles reference was made to the Court and its work in general.
In 2015, the media reported almost twice as much about our annual reports as in 2014.
However, the number of media reports on our special reports has decreased compared to 2014, largely due to the interest in a specific report from this year (EU-funded airport infrastructure (No. 21/2014, on which more than 800 articles were published).
Efficiency and effectiveness of resource use We assess the efficiency and effectiveness of our resource use according to our ability to implement our work programme, carry out audits in a timely manner and ensure the expertise of our employees.
Implementation of the Work Programme We plan our audit and other tasks on the basis of the annual Work Programme and monitor progress during the year.
In 2015, we implemented our work programme to 88%.
While work on the annual reports and special annual reports was carried out on schedule, this was 69% in the case of special reports, compared to our very ambitious planning.
The completion of the remaining special reports, which has been delayed due to remaining audit evidence or unexpected complexity, was transferred to the beginning of 2016.
These special reports mainly concern new or innovative tests, the completion of which, of course, can take more time.
The Court's reform project, which is assessed under the heading "other tasks', progressed as planned.
Implementation of the Court's 2015 work programme 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% Annual Special Reports Reports Special Annual Reports Other tasks 100 % 100 % 69 % 100 % 88 %
Our management 49 Preparation of the special reports In order for our special reports to have effect, they must be submitted promptly.
In recent years, we have been able to shorten the time needed for audits, largely based on initiatives resulting from the 2013-2017 strategy.
In 2015, we prepared our 25 special reports over an average of 17 months (19 months in 2014), i.e. for the first time in less than 18 months.
We will continue to work to shorten the time needed to prepare our special reports, which will, in particular, respond to the new principle introduced in the amended Financial Regulation.
Professional Training In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we strive to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training (excluding language courses).
The objective for the professional training of examiners was again exceeded, as it is evident that we attach great importance to the development of personnel.
When taking into account the language courses, an examiner accounted for an average of 9.4 training days in 2015.
Processing duration of special reports published in 2013-2015 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% 5 % 1 SB 4 % 1 SB 4 % 1 SB Longer than 26 months 18-26 months 10-18 months 60 % 12 SB 54 % 13 SB 35 % 7 SB 42 % 10 SB 2013 2014 2015 36 % 9 SB 60 % 15 SB Continuing training days per examiner per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Average number of examiner training days (excluding language courses) Objective ≥ 5 days 6.4 5.8 6.2 2013 2014 2015 days
Support for 50 audit activities Personnel resources Personnel allocation In 2015, we continued the staff reduction of 1% per year for a period of five years (2013-2017), as laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of December 2013.
As a result, in 2015 the staffing was reduced from 882 temporary staff to 872 (excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and interns).
The inspectors involved 562 staff, including 113 staff in the members' cabinets.
Recruitment The Court's employees have a broad academic and professional background and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
Our recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions, and the staff is made up of both officials and temporary staff.
In 2015, we hired 63 staff: 30 officials, 17 temporary staff, 11 contract staff, four seconded national experts and one consultant.
We also provided internships for 74 university graduates for periods of three to five months.
On 31 December 2015, the Court had only 15 vacant posts (1.7% of the total number of posts).
Distribution of the Court's posts on 31 December 2015 Total 891 Total 882 Total 872 31 39 41 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 Examination services 100 137 141 133 147 141 136 576 561 562 President's services Administration Translation 0 2013 2014 2015
Supporting audit activities 51 Balance between men and women Like the other EU institutions, we have a policy of equal opportunities in terms of human resources management and recruitment.
For several years we have been able to maintain a balanced proportion of men and women among our employees.
The graph shows the share of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2015. These shares have hardly changed in recent years.
Our action plan on equal opportunities aims to achieve a balanced proportion of men and women at all levels.
According to the latest recruitment waves, 50% of the employees in grades AD 5 to AD 8 are women (an increase compared to 48% in 2014).
Renewal in the upper and middle levels of management and the growing proportion of women in the AD function group are expected to increase in the future.
Ratio between men and women at responsibility level 35% 65% Assistants – Secretaries Auditors – Administrators Management 59% 41% 69% 31% 0 % 20 % 40 % 60 % 80 % 100 %
Support for auditing activities 53 Age profile Age group 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0 % 0.3 % 3.0 % 8.0 % 13.7% 9.6% 20.3% 20.9% 19.6% 20 % 25 % 4.1 % 0.6 % 5 % 10 % 15 % The age profile of the active staff of 31 December 2015 shows that 52% of our staff are 44 years of age or younger.
32 of the 69 directors and managers (46%) are 55 years of age or older.
As a result, in the next five to ten years, when these employees retire, a renewal in senior management positions will take place.
Support services Professional further training The occupation of the examiner requires continuous training in order to keep pace with professional developments and to acquire new skills.
In 2015, our employees completed an average of 7.3 days of professional training.
The proportion of language courses in the total number of training days continues to decline.
Language courses accounted for 35% of the total number of training days in 2015 (compared to 43% in 2014).
Our main activities in the field of vocational training concern the modernisation of our training programmes and closer cooperation with learning opportunities in and outside the EU institutions and bodies.
We started a cooperation with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France) in order to offer a postgraduate course of study "Audit of public organizations and policies" and a master course "Management of public organisations".
Cooperation continued with the European Commission, which offers language courses for our staff, and with the European Administrative Academy, which has supported us in organising the training on "soft skills" and the ECA training day.
In addition, we have expanded our range of courses even further through individually tailored e-learning courses and training courses in the form of integrated learning (blended learning).
In addition, we continued our successful series of presentations held by internal and external experts on audit developments and other subjects related to the work of our auditors.
Finally, we introduced a framework for Performance Recognition Awards, which aims to award special training outside the Court for the performance of non-executive staff.
Support for audit activities 54 Translation Translation is an audit support activity that enables us to fulfil our mission and fulfil our communication goals.
In 2015, the total volume of translation was as high as never before: almost 200,000 pages, an increase of almost 3% compared to 2014.
Around 99% of the translations were completed on time.
In addition to normal translation work, our translators also provided language support and interpretation services to internal events and meetings during 26 inspection visits throughout the EU.
They also supported the drafting of preliminary observations and special reports, thereby increasing their involvement in the Court's central audit procedures.
Following the review of the translation workflow and the reform of the Court of Auditors, the Translation Directorate improved its structures in 2015 through the introduction of assistant pools.
A major project of the Directorate, GroupShare, will lead to significant improvements by further streamlining the work of the assistant pools to create space for efficiency improvements and automation, and to standardise the procedures of all language teams.
Information technology In 2015, the Information Technologies Directorate focused its efforts on adapting our administrative information systems to support the successful implementation of the Court's reform and the preparation of developments in the field of knowledge management in support of the Court's new organisational structure.
In addition, all functions of the full version of the Assyst2 audit documentation system have been introduced for work on the Statement of Assurance, Economic Audits and related reports, which concludes this major project.
Our new audit management system (AMS) has been put into operation: more than 300 plans have been drawn up in the system and 180 audit tasks have been defined and monitored with the instrument.
Building on the technical basis for mobility introduced in the last few years (delivery of the WLAN network in all the premises of the yard, equipment of all staff with laptops), the Directorate is currently focusing on global mobility, i.e. access to all content at any place, at any time and on all devices.
The project with regard to the development of a solution that ensures that employees can access our information on all devices will contribute to maintaining the business of the farm and to increasing efficiency and effectiveness.
The maintenance of business operations during the development and deployment of IT solutions was ensured, resulting in 99.82% availability of critical systems.
Supporting audit activities 55 Administration and infrastructure The role of the Finance and Support Services Directorate is to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mission and achieve its strategic objectives.
The Directorate shall also ensure that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all the Court's activities.
In 2015, the Directorate continued to focus on making its activities even more efficient and economic.
Because of the extraordinary situation following the terrorist attacks in Paris in November and the subsequent crisis situation in Belgium, we intensified our security measures and acquired the necessary security equipment in the context of public procurement procedures.
Information on public procurement is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Buildings The yard currently owns three buildings ("K1, "K2 ("K3") and offers small areas for its IT center for the recovery of data and a meeting room.
He also provides three offices in Brussels and one office in Strasbourg from the European Parliament.
In order to ensure the cost-effectiveness of our building policy, we take into account three factors: purchase or rental, follow-up costs and interinstitutional cooperation.
In developing and implementing our building policy, as in all our areas of activity, we strive to establish and meet the highest standards of transparency and accountability.
Community Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) The Community Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) is a management tool developed by the European Commission for companies and other organisations to assess, report and improve their environmental performance.
We started in 2014 with the development of an environmental development system2, which is in line with the principles of the European EMAS standard provided for in the 2009 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council3.
Our goal is an EMAS certification by the end of 2016.
In 2015, the EMAS project made the planned progress.
2 The EMAS project at the Court was launched in July 2013.
Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation of organisations in a Community environmental management and audit scheme (EMAS).
Support for audit activities 56 Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union.
Our budget accounts for around 0.087 % of total EU expenditure and 1.51% of total administrative expenditure.
In 2015, the overall budget execution rate was 98.68 %.
Implementation of the budget 2015 BUDGET YEAR 2015 Final appropriations Commitments Use of appropriations in % (commitments/commitments) Payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (EUR 1 000) 10 – Members of the institution 10 171 10 054 99 % 9 978 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 94 517 94 118 99 % 94 072 14 – Other staff and external services 4 651 4 559 98 % 4 502 162 – Missions 3 600 3 162 88 % 2 620 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for Members and staff of the institution 2 819 2 753 98 % 1 903 Subtotal Title 1 115 758 114 646 99 % 113 075 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 20 – Buildings 4 143 4 140 99 % 2 071 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 8 557 8 557 100 % 3 940 212, 216, 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 1 1001 97 % 768 23 – Running expenditure for the operation of the service 233 1 840 and 731 1 717 of the 201 212 and 717 of the Conferences
Support for audit activities 57 Budget 2016 Budget appropriations for 2016 increased by 1.94% compared to 2015.
Budget 2016 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 20 – Building 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 – Mobile and ancillary expenses 23 – Current operating expenses 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications 10 885 98 881 4 876 3 600 2 911 7 347 2 401 10 291 97 420 4 301 3 700 3 080 BUDGET 2016 (1 000 Euro) 2015 (1 000 Euro) Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 161, 163, 165 – Other expenses for the members and staff of the institution 2 559 2 669 Subtotal Title 1 120 801 118 381 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 7 152 882 785 439 426 706 717 2 365 Subtotal Title 2 14 686 14 525 Total 135487 132 906
Supporting audit activities 58 Auditing and accountability discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2015, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the 2013 financial year, which means that our financial statements for 2013 were finally approved.
We have carefully analysed the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility and have also taken appropriate measures within the framework of our reform.
We have reported on our follow-up to the European Parliament.
Internal and external audit Internal audit of the Court The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk control matters by giving opinions on the quality of management and internal control systems and recommendations to improve the management of our operations and to promote sound financial management.
The department also supports the work of the external auditor, whose mission is to certify the Court's annual accounts.
Finally, the Internal Audit Service provides information on significant risks and corporate governance issues.
The Internal Audit Service is supervised by an Internal Audit Committee composed of three members of the Court and an external expert.
The Committee regularly monitors the progress made in the various tasks defined in the Internal Revision Work Programme of the Internal Revision Service.
The Committee also ensures the independence of the Internal Audit Service.
In 2015, the Internal Revision department prepared special reports on strategic issues such as changes in our annual report, mid-term review of the implementation of our 2013-2017 strategy and follow-up of the implementation of the peer review and European Parliament recommendations.
Taking into account the recommendations of the 2014 Internal Revision Service that the internal control cycle should be strengthened, we updated our IT security system and formalised the existing risk management framework and existing guidelines.
The Internal Audit Service monitored the implementation of the new guidelines and ensured that their recommendations were taken into account.
We report annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit.
External audit of the Court Our financial statements are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as to the bodies it is examining.
The auditor's report – PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à r.l. – on our financial statements for the financial year 2014 was published on 15 September 2015.
Supporting audit activities 59 audit opinions of the independent auditor – Financial year 2014 As regards the annual accounts: "We believe that the annual accounts give a true picture of the European Court of Auditors' financial and financial position as at 31 December 2014 and its earnings and cash flows for the year ending on that reference date in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation.
Declaration by the 60 authorising officer by delegation I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, • that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and • confirms with reasonable certainty that the appropriations that have been made available for the activities described in this report have been used for the intended purposes and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, — the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, and for the proper management of fraud or suspected fraud, — that the costs and benefits of the controls are reasonable.
This security shall be based on the assessment of the undersigned and on the information at his disposal, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 25 February 2016 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
Authorisation to reproduce or reproduce the following photos must be obtained directly from the copyright holder: © EU 2015, source: European Court of Auditors, p. 1 (photo 3), p. 2, p. 5; architects of the European Court of Auditors buildings: Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013) and Paul Noël (1988). © Najwyższa Izba Kontroli (NIK), p. 38 / photo: Krzysztof Andrzejewski.
The Commission's Commission's services are: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Parliament's services: European Commission' services: European Commission' services: European Commission' services: European Commission's services: European Commission's services: European Commission' services: European Commission's services: European Commission' services: European Commission': European Commission' The Commission' services: European Commission' services: European Commission' services: Commission' services: European
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS DE 2017 Activity Report
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2018 Print ISBN 978-92-872-9644-3 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-9665-8 HTML ISBN 978-92-872-9455-5 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi: 10.2865/281586 doi: 10.2865/91294 doi: 10.2865/4624 QJ-AA-18-001-EN-C QJ-AA-18-001-EN-N QJ-AA-18-001-EN-Q
01 With pictures it is best to bring the past 40 years to life.
The above photos show the everyday work of the many hundreds of employees who have worked at the farm in the past decades.
A selection of these photos was published in 2017 on our website (eca.europa.eu) and on social media (@EUauditors).
European Court of Auditors 02 About the Court The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the external auditor of the EU and one of the seven institutions of the Union.
The College of the Court consists of 28 members, one from each EU Member State.
The Court employs some 900 staff from all EU nationalities, made up of auditors and administrative staff.
It was built in 1977 and is based in Luxembourg.
The Court's tasks The Court checks that the EU provides proper accounting, ensures the correct compliance with its financial rules and that EU policies and programmes make optimal use of resources.
Through its audit work, the Court contributes to improving the financial management of the EU and to promoting accountability and transparency.
It warns against risks, provides audit security, indicates weaknesses and successes, and provides guidance to EU policy-makers and legislators.
The Court submits its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, the national parliaments and the general public.
The buildings of the European Court of Auditors at the Kirchberg Plateau in Luxembourg, 2017
Content 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 President's Preface 5 2017 at a glance 6 Our Activities 6 Audits 8 Publications 19 Key Events 21 Relations with institutional addressees 24 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions 26 Our Management 26 The College of Court Members 26 Audit Chambers and Committees 28 Strategy 29 Workplan 29 Performance Measurement 34 Our Staff 34 Staff 34 Staff 34 Recruitment 35 Age profile 35 Balance between men and women 37 Support for audit activities 37 Professional training 37 Translation 37 Information technology 38 Buildings 39 Environmental management 40 Audit of the Court 40 Financial information 42 Internal and external audit 44 Declaration of the authorising officer by delegation 45 Appendix - Publications in 2017: Special reports, opinions and analysis-based publications
Preface of the President 04 Dear reader, dear reader!
In 1977, the European Court of Auditors started its work – 40 years later, we look back on many of the successful contributions we have made to public accountability and to EU financial management.
In October 2017, on the occasion of the occasion of the Court's jubilee, an official ceremony attended by your Royal Highnesses of the Grand Duke and the Grand Duchess of Luxembourg, the President of the Republic of Estonia Kersti Kaljulaid, the President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani and the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker.
Their participation in the event is a sign of the great importance of the Court as a ‘financial of the European Union'.
In the course of the year, however, we also looked forward to the future.
We discussed and agreed on a strategy for the remaining three years of the current Multiannual Financial Framework by the end of 2020.
Our citizens need access to clear and reliable information so that they do not lose their confidence in the EU and its institutions.
People must be able to see that the EU is dealing with integrity, the rule of law is respected, the use of public resources is prudent, that it has clear political objectives and that it has achieved the results it has promised.
As an external auditor of the Union, we are well positioned to examine these aspects and report on them accordingly.
Throughout the year, we have published special reports on a wide range of EU policies and programmes, as well as analysis-based publications such as landscape analyses and rapid analyses.
In addition, we have drafted several opinions on legislative proposals and, as we have done every year, we have produced our annual reports on the general budget of the EU and on the European Development Funds and on the EU agencies and on many other institutions of the Union.
This activity report provides a comprehensive overview of our activities in 2017 and contains important information about the Court, its budget and its staff.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne President
2017 at a glance 05 Our activities Our management • 28 special reports analysing the effectiveness and • the added value of EU policies and programmes in areas such as youth unemployment, environment, migration and banking union; • a landscape analysis of EU activities in the areas of energy and climate change and a rapid analysis of the reduction of staff in the EU institutions; • • five opinions on new or amended EU legislation with a significant impact on financial management, including an opinion on the Financial Regulation for the • EU budget and an opinion on the financing of European political parties; • annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget as well as on the activities under the European Development Funds, together with the accompanying summary report "2016 – brief information on the EU audit; • 55 special reports on the annual accounts of the EU agencies, institutions and joint undertakings, which are based in different Member States, including two summary reports; • meetings, seminars and conferences with our institutional addressees and colleagues, such as the meetings of the meetings of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the European Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions, and conferences on youth unemployment and energy assessment, climate change.
We welcomed two new members: Juhan Parts (Estonia) on 1 January 2017 and Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary) on 1 September 2017. • We issued a new multi-annual strategy that will guide our work and management in the period 2018-2020. We also reviewed our work planning to ensure a more strategic, more coherent approach to the planning of our audit priorities, and reviewed our risk management policy and strengthened our financial procedures. • We continued the reduction of posts agreed among the EU institutions and, at the same time, implemented the policy of equal opportunities in recruitment and human resources management.
Our activities 06 Audits We perform various types of audits in the various budgetary areas of the EU: • Audits – the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EU policies and programmes.
The focus of these audits of optimal use of funds is on specific management or budget issues, which we select on the basis of criteria such as public interest, potential for improvement, risk of insufficient performance or irregularities; • Audits on accounting and compliance audits – the reliability of the annual accounts, the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions (especially in the context of the Statement of Assurance) as well as assessments of whether the systems or operations in specific budgetary areas are in compliance with the relevant rules and regulations.
On the basis of the evidence obtained from our audit work, our reports draw clear conclusions on the extent to which the EU's policy objectives have been achieved, as well as on the state of the Union's budgetary and financial management.
This information helps us to make useful and relevant recommendations from the point of view of cost efficiency.
Test visits in 2017 The majority of the examination work takes place in the premises of the Court in Luxembourg.
At the same time, our auditors also carried out numerous audit visits to the other EU institutions, agencies and agencies, EU delegations, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, and to international organisations such as the United Nations, which are involved in the award of EU funds in the course of 2017.
We also carry out checks on recipients of EU funds on the ground within and outside the European Union.
These checks provide us with direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the management of EU policies and programmes and the collection and disbursement of EU funds, as well as from the beneficiaries concerned.
Tests are our core activity Frequency and intensity of our audit work in each Member State and recipient country depend on the type of audit we carry out.
In 2017, our auditors spent 3,670 days with on-site inspections in Member States and outside the EU (2016: 4,246 days).
Within the EU, our on-the-spot checks are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKBs) of the Member States visited.
3 670 days on-the-spot audits in the Member States and outside the EU in 2017 In addition, our auditors spent 2 300 days (2016: 2 510 days) with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralised agencies and bodies throughout the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations and the OECD, as well as audit firms.
In order to obtain and validate test certificates, we are increasingly making use of video conferencing and other information technologies (such as the secure exchange of data and documents).
Our activities 07 5 970 audit days in 2017 Spain Italy Poland France Germany United Kingdom Greece Czech Republic Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Estonia Netherlands Ireland Austria Sweden Finland Lithuania Denmark Latvia Slovenia Slovakia Malta Croatia Belgium Cyprus Luxembourg Lebanon Niger Georgia Norway Nigeria Serbia Gabon Angola Switzerland Guinea-Bissau Zimbabwe Burkina Faso Malawi Mali Bosnia and Herzegovina Jordan Barbados United States Ghana Sudan Ethiopia Turkey Myanmar/Burma 293 280 260 377 371 153 EU Member States (3 215 audit days) 5 970 audit days Third countries (455 audit days) EU institutions and bodies (2 300 audit days) 129 125 123 120 116 116 106 93 84 66 55 52 44 32 23 23 23 23 23 18 10 6 9 10 11 11 12 13 13 13 19 20 20 21 22 23 24 24 26 38 41 46 0 50 100 150 200 300 350 400
Our activities 08 Detecting fraud In the fight against fraud against the EU budget, we work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
These cases will then be followed up by OLAF, which will decide on possible investigations and, if appropriate, cooperate with Member States' authorities.
In 2017, we forwarded 13 suspected fraud cases identified during our audits to OLAF Although our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud, our audit work occasionally encounter cases where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activities.
In 2017, we forwarded 13 such cases (2016: 11 cases) in which there was a suspicion of fraud to OLAF. Suspects of fraud arose as part of our audit activities for the Statement of Assurance for the financial years 2016 and 2017 as well as for other audit tasks.
Publications Our publications: Special reports, annual reports, opinions and analysis-based publications Our audit reports and opinions form an important link in the EU's accountability chain, as they are used to hold the EU's audit bodies accountable, in particular in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
In areas of shared management, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States also play an important role, as in expenditure on agricultural and cohesion measures. Approximately 80% of the EU budget is implemented in this way.
Our range of publications includes • special reports presenting the results of selected audits of specific policy or expenditure areas or on budgetary or management issues; • annual reports containing mainly the results of audits of the accounts and compliance audits on the budget of the European Union and on the European Development Funds, but also on aspects of budgetary management and performance aspects; • specific annual reports on the EU agencies, decentralised bodies and Joint Undertakings, published separately; • opinions on new or amended legal acts with significant effects on financial management, either at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative;
Our activities 09 • Analysis-based publications: • Landscape analyses are descriptive and analytical documents on complex, broad policy areas or management issues, in which, in many cases from a cross-cutting perspective, we present our experience and our accumulated knowledge on the selected topic; • Topic papers are similar to Landscape analyses, since they are also descriptive and analytical documents on policy or management, but their topics are more limited; • Rapid case reviews present facts which are related to very clearly defined specific topics or problems.
All publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
In addition, all 2017 special reports, opinions and analysis-based publications are listed at the end of this report.
100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total: 93 3 28 55 52 Special reports Annual reports** Number of publications in 2017 Analysis-based publications Statements Special annual reports* 2017 * Special annual reports and summary reports on EU agencies and Joint Undertakings ** Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, the annual report on the European Development Funds and the summary report"2016 – brief information on the EU's audit-.
Our activities 10 Annual reports Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2016 In our Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2016, we examined how the EU funds had been used for the financial year under consideration and showed the areas in which the risk of EU funds not being used properly was greatest.
In addition, we have specifically assessed all important areas of the EU budget, on the basis of the headings of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, and have provided information on budget and financial management and performance-related information.
Furthermore, we analysed why errors had occurred and made recommendations on possible improvements.
Audit of around 1,000 payments made from the EU budget to beneficiaries in 2016 Our auditors investigated around 1,000 payments to beneficiaries made in the various expenditure areas of the EU budget.
This means that we analysed around 1 000 different cases where EU funds were used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries.
The discharge procedure begins with the presentation of our annual report on the financial year 2016 The publication of our annual report begins with the discharge procedure on the implementation of the EU budget carried out by the European Parliament.
On 28 September, we presented our annual report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT) and, subsequently, to the plenary session of the European Parliament and the Ecofin Council and the national parliaments of the Member States.
Our activities 11 EU annual accounts give a true picture; share of irregular expenditures fell further in 2016 Main conclusions s The 2016 annual accounts were drawn up in accordance with international principles and give a true picture of EU finances in all material respects.  in 2016 the revenue in 2016 was not a material error.  and over the past few years the estimated error rate in payments from the EU budget has improved continuously: in 2016: 3.1%, in 2015: 3.8% and in 2014: 4.4%.
In 2016, a significant proportion of audited expenditure – claims-based payments (as opposed to reimbursement-based payments) – was not substantially affected by errors.  - In most areas, the Commission's reporting on regularity is largely in line with our results.
However, the Commission should simplify performance measurement, for example by reducing the number of targets and indicators.
Without these measures, the overall error rate we estimated would have been 1.2 percentage points higher.
However, sufficient information was available to prevent and detect and correct a significant proportion of the errors.  was available, the total amount of payments to which the EU committed itself under future budgets was as high as never before and is expected to continue to rise.
Our activities 12 Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget contains for the first time a limited audit opinion on the regularity of EU expenditure Lazaros S. Lazarou, the Court member responsible for the annual report Unrestricted audit opinion Error rate is less than 2% Restricted audit opinion Error rate is more than 2%, however there are only certain budget areas affected Failed audit report Error rate is more than 2%, the whole budget being affected "The 2016 annual report is of historical importance, as it is clearly different from the previous reports.
In terms of compliance with the legislation on the expenditure side, we for the first time issued a limited and no longer failed audit opinion. the comparison between the estimated error rates for the EU spending areas (2014-2016) the estimated error rates 5.7 5.6 2014 2015 2016 5.2 4.8 4.4 4.1 3.6 2.9 2.5 2.8 2.7 2.1 0.6 0.5 The expenditure area Economic, social and territorial cohesion 0.2 The ability of the EU to manage resources.
Our activities 13 Our institutional addressees also need information about the results of EU expenditure "This year's limited audit judgement shows significant improvements in the EU's finances.
In the future, we will rethink the way we review the EU budget: − we will take greater account of the internal controls carried out at the level of the European Commission and the Member States, so that we can increase the level of accountability and further improve EU financial management. − we will also increase our attention to performance aspects to ensure that the resources of the EU's citizens are used to the best possible extent. − we will also increase our attention to the performance of EU expenditure and to the results achieved, also highlighted by Joachim Zeller, Member of the European Parliament and rapporteur for the 2016 discharge: Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, at the presentation of the annual report at the plenary session of the European Parliament on 4 October 2017 in Strasbourg. "Information such as error rates or information regarding the use of resources from the Structural Funds are important, but we should also look at what has been achieved by these resources.
Our activities 14 Annual Report on the European Development Funds The European Development Fund (EDF) provides financial assistance to the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and the overseas countries and territories.
The EDFs are financed by the Member States and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and, in some cases, by the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Around one third of the total EDF error rate is due to the failure to comply with procurement rules.
Other important types of error concern, inter alia, expenditure which is either not actually incurred or not eligible.
Our annual report on the EDFs is published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca. europa.eu).
Special Annual Reports EU agencies and other bodies and European Joint Undertakings are based in different EU Member States, carrying out specific tasks in areas of greatest importance to EU citizens, such as health, security, freedom and justice, and research.
In 2017, the Court examined whether the agencies' annual accounts were reliable and whether the underlying transactions were in line with the rules.
In the formation of our audit opinions on the annual accounts of the agencies, we, if available, took into account the audit work carried out by audit firms.
We also examined Sisnet's communications infrastructure, the European Schools, the contingent liabilities of the Single Resolution Committee and the liquidation of the Galileo Joint Undertaking.
We have worked on consolidating the results and are expected to issue a single report for the agencies in 2018. i Key data EDF budget 2016 3.4 billion euros Audited amount 2.8 billion euros Audited amount 2.8 billion euros Audited amount Reliable revenue Non-permissive payments Substantial error rate (estimated error rate 3.3%) i Key data Audited by the Court 45 agencies and other EU agencies, 8 joint enterprises Total 2016 budget 5.2 billion euros Total 2016 staff Some 11,000 staff The Court publishes 55 special annual reports, including two summary reports
Our activities 15 agencies (budget of 3.4 billion euros, 10 364 employees) Our audit showed that the annual accounts of all 41 agencies give a true picture of the situation.
The financial operations underlying the annual accounts were legal and proper for all agencies, except for the European Asylum Support Office, for which we gave a limited opinion, due to the non-compliance with the public procurement principles.
Joint Undertakings (budget of 1.8 billion euros, 633 employees) The annual accounts of all eight Joint Undertakings were reliable.
They appropriately presented the assets and financial position of the Joint Undertakings and the results of their transactions and cash flows for the year 2016 in all material respects.
Furthermore, the transactions underlying the annual accounts for seven Joint Undertakings were in line with the relevant legislation, except the ECSEL Joint Undertaking, for which we gave a restricted audit opinion, as we were unable to secure a sufficient level of certainty as to the reliability of its internal controls for FP7 grants.
All special annual reports and the two summary reports are available on our website (eca. europa.eu).
Special Reports In 2017, we published 28 special reports.
In these reports, we examined in particular whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved in an effective and economic way, and whether the EU funds have created added value.
We also made recommendations for improvements in terms of financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste or achieving the desired policy objectives more cost-effectively.
Special reports focus on the effectiveness, effectiveness and economy of EU policies and programmes Our special reports focus on issues relevant to the EU, such as the sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, the creation of growth and the promotion of inclusion, the challenges associated with migration and global development, the internal market and the banking union, as well as ensuring the accountability and economic viability of the European Union.
Here we will look at two of these 28 special reports: a special report on food waste, on whether EU policies were appropriate to tackle this problem throughout the food supply chain, and a special report on the Greek financial crisis, on how the EU responded to the financial and debt crisis in one of its Member States through its economic adjustment programmes.
Our activities 16 COMPETITIVENESS FOR GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT EMPLOYMENT ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND TERRITORIAL COOPERATION • Programme conclusion • Partnership agreements • Ex ante conditionalities • Financial corrections • Signalling in railway transport • Single European Sky • SME Guarantee Facility • Youth unemployment • Drinking water Special reports: Special reports of the Court in 2017 EUROPE IN THE WORLD • Honduras • Tunisia • Disaster management • Mobilization of domestic revenues in Africa • Registration centres for migrants (hotspots) • Trafficking in human beings • Trust fund Bêkou • Election monitoring MANAGEMENT NATURAL RESOURCES Special reports: Special reports: • Food waste • Natura 2000 • Certified bodies • Fisheries control • Young farmers • Rural development • Greening the CAP Special report: TERMS Customs controls Special report: Court of Justice of the European Union Financial and ECONOMIC STORRY • Greek financial crisis Special reports: • Single management committee Special reports: • Single management committee
Our activities 17 Special Report: Combating food waste: an opportunity for the EU to improve the resource efficiency of the food supply chain Food waste is a global problem Food waste is a global issue, which has become the focus of public and political debate in recent years, especially in view of the need to feed the growing global population.
Current estimates indicate that around one third of food produced for human consumption is wasted or is lost around the world, resulting in high economic and environmental costs.
The EU auditors examined the role the EU can play in the fight against food waste The Court's auditors examined in particular the measures taken so far and the way in which the EU's various policy instruments have worked in order to reduce food waste.
The focus was on avoiding food waste and facilitating food donation, as these two aspects were given the highest priority in the fight against food waste.
Our auditors interviewed the Commission staff responsible for the policy in question, carried out file checks and carried out audit visits in five Member States: Italy (Lazio), the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania and Finland.
They visited the relevant ministries and made on-site visits.
They also consulted relevant stakeholders in the areas of food production, retail trade, research and charities. "The EU can and should do more to combat the food waste effectively," said EU auditors, the auditors concluded that while food waste could and should be combated through a number of EU policies, this potential is not exploited.
The present approach is still fragmented and inconsistent, and coordination at Commission level is deficient.
Our report identified a number of untapped opportunities and potential improvements that would not require new legislation or additional public resources, and recommended that auditors better adapt existing policies and set a clear policy objective of reducing food waste.
The report was submitted to the Committee of the European Parliament on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, as well as to the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the EU, and a number of national parliaments across the EU.
Both the European Parliament and the Council welcomed the report and agreed with the conclusions contained therein.
The report has also received a strong response from the media, especially the social media.
Our Activities 18 Special Report: The Commission's role in the Greek financial crisis Greece needed support to ensure its financial stability The 2008 financial crisis followed an economic downturn and a debt crisis in Europe, which exposed the weaknesses of the Greek economy.
In April 2010, Greece was no longer able to finance itself on the financial markets on a sustainable basis, and was therefore seeking financial assistance from the euro area Member States and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Since then, Greece has participated in three economic adjustment programmes, managed by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF, the so-called "troika".--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The third programme also involved the European Stability Mechanism (ESM).
The total amount of support of EUR 368.6 billion was conditional on political conditionality, which was jointly established by the Greek authorities and the lenders.
These programmes aimed at stabilising the economic situation in Greece by meeting the financial needs of the Greek economy by preventing the crisis from spilling over to the rest of the euro area.
In return, Greece committed itself to carrying out far-reaching structural reforms.
The EU auditors examined whether the Commission had adequately managed the economic adjustment programmes This review is in line with the Court's economic audits in recent years with regard to the actions and reforms to be undertaken in response to the 2008 financial crisis.
Our auditors assessed how the Commission handled the first two programmes for Greece and how the third programme had been designed.
They reviewed the documents on EU financial assistance programmes, analysed programme conditions and interviewed Commission staff, national authorities (such as specialized ministries), the Bank of Greece, business associations and stakeholders as well as IMF, ESM and OECD staff. "Economic adjustment programmes for Greece: despite shortcomings, progress in the reform process, " EU auditors concluded that economic adjustment programmes for Greece had offered financial stability in the short term and had made progress in the reform process.
However, in Greece, the programmes produced only a limited recovery.
In addition, the auditors found that the Commission had no experience of managing such a process, that the conditions of the programmes were not sufficiently prioritized according to the meaning or that they were embedded in a broader strategy for Greece, and that the macroeconomic assumptions of the programmes were on clay.
This special report was submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and to institutional stakeholders in Greece.
The report was the subject of comprehensive media coverage and was the largest media response of all the special reports we published in 2017.
Our Activities 19 Key Events 40th Anniversary of the European Court of Auditors 12 October 2017, Luxembourg Congress Centre Plenary Room The 40th anniversary of the establishment of our institution was celebrated with an official ceremony in the presence of your Royal Highnesses of the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess of Luxembourg and Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel.
The ceremony was opened by our President Klaus-Heiner Lehne, followed by speeches by Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia, and Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission.
In addition to the ceremony, an annual conference was held to meet the presidents of the EU Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCs) (the EU's Con-tact Committee) and the presidents of the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries.
From left to right: Henri Grethen, Member of the Court; Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister of Luxembourg; Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Her Royal Highnesses, Grand Duchess and Grand Duke of Luxembourg; Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament; Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission
Our activities 20 Conference of the Court on Youth Employment – addressing challenges and finding solutions 10 May 2017, European Parliament, Brussels This conference was organised after the publication of our Special Report on the Youth Guarantee, which, as in other reports, examined the effectiveness of EU policies in addressing the problem of youth unemployment in the EU Member States.
During the conference, the rapporteur, Iliana Ivanova, and the auditors discussed with high-level representatives of EU institutions, employment agencies and young people whether the EU policies should deliver results and how best to proceed in the future.
Court Conference on EU action on energy and climate change 17 October 2017, European Parliament, Brussels This conference was an integral part of our work on the Landscape Analysis of EU action on energy and climate change, which we published in September 2017, and later presented at the United Nations Climate Conference (COP23) in Bonn.
The Court's conference provided a platform for stakeholders and key stakeholders in this area, both public and private, to discuss future challenges.
It was organised jointly by the Court and the European Parliament's Scientific Service.
The conference was opened by Phil Wynn Owen, the rapporteur, and Jerzy Buzek, the chairman of the European Parliament's Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
The conference was attended by representatives of Member States, EU institutions, Supreme Audit Institutions, non-governmental organisations and think tanks, as well as members of the European Parliament (MEP), scientists and our auditors.
From left to right: Phil Wynn Owen, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Jerzy Buzek, Member of the European Parliament; Anthony Teasdale, Director-General of the European Parliament's Scientific Service From left to right: Marianne Thyssen, Member of the Commission; Pavel Telička, Vice-President of the European Parliament; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President of the European Commission; Iliana Ivanova, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Martina Dlabajová, Member of the European Parliament
Our activities 21 Court of Auditors' Regulatory Impact Assessment Symposium November 23, 2017, European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg The two-day Symposium, which discussed the subject of Regulatory Impact Assessment, was attended by around 100 representatives of universities, think tanks, research centres, international organisations, European, national and regional institutions.
During the symposium, papers were presented and discussed, which were submitted by the participants in an open call.
The symposium was chaired by Danièle Lamarque, a member of the Court, and organized in collaboration with the scientific journal "Politiques et management public the public.
This is crucial because the impact of our work depends largely on the benefits of our audit results and recommendations.
It is therefore also important that we take account of their concerns and proposals in the planning of our annual work programme.
European Parliament In February 2017, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne presented the Court's work programme for the year 2017 to the parliamentary body coordinating the work of the committees of the European Parliament (Conference of Committee Chairs).
It invited all Parliament's standing committees to propose possible audit tasks for the 2018 work programme.
Three quarters of the parliamentary committees submitted proposals, of which we have now taken account of around two thirds of them in our work.
Exchange of views with the Conference of the Committee Chairs of the European Parliament chaired by Cecilia Wikström
Our activities 22 In April 2017, President Lehne took part in the debate in the plenary session of the European Parliament on the discharge procedure for 2015.
In September 2017, he presented the Court's annual report for the financial year 2016 to the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT), and in October 2017 to the plenary.
The parliamentary group chairmen, meeting at the Conference of Presidents, invited President Lehne to their meeting in November 2017 to discuss the Court's strategy and work programme.
For our members, it is common practice to present our reports and other results to the CONT.
During the year, we gave nearly 60 presentations to this committee.
Members of the Court shall also exchange views with other standing committees and delegations.
In 2017, we presented our reports to these committees and delegations in 23 meetings, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, the Committee on Regional Development and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
In addition, our members took part in the meetings of the coordinators of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, as they expressed their particular interest in our audit work.
Parliament also invited us to present our special report on registration centres for migrants (hotspots) at its conference on migration management.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, at a press conference following the meeting with Presidents of Parliament, November 2017, Strasbourg Council During the Maltese Presidency, President Lehne and Court Member Leo Brincat (Malta) met the Maltese Minister of European Affairs, Helena Dalli, and the Parliamentary Secretary of State for European Funds and the social dialogue, Aaron Farrugia, in Valletta (Malta) in June 2017.
In September 2017, during the Estonian Presidency, President Lehne, Court Member Juhan Parts (Estonia) and Rimantas Šadžius, President of the Estonian Presidency, met with Estonian Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste in Tallinn.
During the year, the representatives of the two Council Presidencies also visited the Court in Luxembourg.
In November 2017, President Lehne presented our annual report to the EU Finance Ministers at the ECOFIN Council in Brussels.
At work level, our main contact person is the Council's Committee on Budgets, which deals with all financial matters, including the discharge procedure.
In 2017, our auditors attended several meetings of the Council's other preparatory bodies to present the Court's reports, mainly the working groups on "Structural measures", "Environment", and "Agrofinan-Agendas".
Maltese Finance Minister Edward Scicluna (right) visits the European Court of Auditors on 29 March 2017.
The photo also shows court member Leo Brincat (left) and court president Klaus-Heiner Lehne (middle).
Our activities 23 national governments and parliaments During the year, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne met a number of high-ranking government representatives in the EU Member States, including Polish President Andrzej Duda in Warsaw, Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa and Portuguese Prime Minister António Costa in Lisbon, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy in Madrid, and French Minister for European Affairs Nathalie Loiseau, and French Minister for Public Action and Public Budget, Gérald Darmanin in Paris.
During his visits, he was accompanied by one of the court members: Janusz Wojciechowski (Poland), João Figueiredo (Portugal), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain) and Danièle Lamarque (France).
Meeting with Polish President Andrzej Duda (Warsaw, February 2017) Meeting with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy (Madrid, March 2017) In 2017, our members presented the Court's annual report on the financial year 2016 to national parliaments in 14 Member States: the Czech Republic, Greece, Spain, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Finland and Sweden.
They also presented several special reports to the relevant national parliamentary committees.
Meeting with the French Minister for Government Action and Public Budget Gérald Darmanin (Paris, December 2017)
Our activities 24 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions Contact Committee of Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States In 2017, we hosted and chaired the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of Supreme Audit Institutions of the 28 EU Member States.
The talks focused on the role of the SAIs in restoring the confidence of EU citizens in national and supranational state institutions.
In addition, the Court took part or took part in the work of the working bodies on the following topics: the European Banking Union, the Structural Funds, the Europe 2020 strategy, the audit of fiscal policy, VAT, public sector accounting principles in the EU Member States (EPSAS) and the prevention and control of irregularities and fraud.
The network of SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries We also support the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Kosovo*, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and support is primarily provided through a network comparable to the Contact Committee.
In 2017, nine auditors from SAIs from the network took part in our internship program.
We also actively contributed to several meetings and activities of this network, including addressing issues such as combating fraud and corruption, as well as organising accounting and compliance audit workshops.
We also took part in a parallel audit of public procurement in the field of public procurement carried out under the auspices of the SAIs of Sweden.
The purpose of this meeting was to adopt a work programme for 2018 and beyond. * This designation does not affect positions on status and is in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on Kosovo's declaration of independence.
Discussions between the representatives of the EU Contact Committee in the conference room of the European Court of Auditors Meeting of the EU Contact Committee, 12-13.
Our activities 25 INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2017, we continued our active participation and participation in INTOSAI's activities, in particular in our role as deputy chairman of the Committee for Technical Standards and as a member of the Subcommittee for the Audit of Accounts and Accounting, the Subcommittee for the Audit of Compliance with Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits.
In addition, we have been actively involved in the activities of other INTOSAI working bodies, as well as EUROSAI working bodies.
Our mandate as a member of the EURO-SAI Bureau ended with the X. EUROSAI Congress in May 2017. • INTOSAI – International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions • EUROSAI – European Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions EUROSAI Working Group "Environment Audit", October 2017, European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg
Our Management 26 The College of Members of the Court The term of office of the Members of the Court is six years; the term of office of the Members of the Court is renewable.
Members shall perform their duties in full independence for the general good of the EU.
When they take office, they take an appropriate oath before the Court of Justice of the European Union.
The College has 28 members, one from each Member State.
Each Member shall be appointed by the Council of the EU after consulting the European Parliament in accordance with the proposals of the respective national government.
In 2017, the Council appointed two new members: • Juhan Parts (Estonia), who took office on 1 January 2017; • Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary), who took office on 1 September 2017.
President Members elect a President from among their number for a period of three years; re-election is allowed.
The role of the president is that of a primus inter pares ("first among equals").
In addition to its other responsibilities, the President shall supervise the performance of the Court's tasks and shall represent it to the outside world.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany) was elected President.
Examination chambers and committees The members are assigned to one of the Court's five examination chambers.The chambers adopt examination reports, opinions and other analysis-based publications.
The Chambers shall be headed by a Doyen elected from among the members.
Each member is responsible for his or her specific audit tasks.
Members are supported by their cabinet.
As of December 2017, the five examination chambers were headed by the following Doyens: Phil Wynn Owen (United Kingdom), Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria), Karel Pinxten (Belgium), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain) and Lazaros S. Lazarou (Cyprus).
Danièle Lamarque (France) chaired the Quality Control Committee in the audit area.
Rimantas Šadžius (Lithuania) was responsible for coordinating the Court's interinstitutional relations.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President.
The members of the Court of Auditors met at 21 College meetings in 2017.
Photo: College meeting of 7 September 2017
Our management 27 Organigram of the European Court of Auditors (as at 31 December 2017) President Chamber I Sustainable use of natural resources Phil WYNN OWEN United Kingdom Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Janusz WOJCECHOWSKI Poland Samo JEREB Slovenia João FIGUEIREDO Portugal Klaus-Heiner LEHNE Germany Chamber II Investments for cohesion, growth and integration Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Ladislav BALKO Slovakia George PUFAN Romania Oskar HERICS Austria Chamber III External policies, security and justice Karel PINXTEN Belgium Hans Gustaf WESSBERG Sweden Ville ITAEL Finland Bettina JAKOBSEN Denmark Juhan PARTS Estonia Chamber IV Market regulation and competitive economy Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA Spain Kevin CARDUI Ireland Neven MATES Croatia Alex BRENNINKMEIJER Netherlands Rimantas ŠADŽIUS Lithuania Ildikó GÁLL-PELCZ Hungary Chamber V Financing and management of the Union Lazaros S. LAZAARBERY Cyprus Member of the Union, Cyprus, Hungary Spain and Ireland
Our management 28 Strategy The next three years will be a crucial period for the European Union in which essential decisions will have to be taken.
We are aware that EU citizens need access to clear and reliable information so that the EU can meet the challenges that arise successfully.
Citizens must be able to see that the EU acts with integrity, preserves the rule of law, uses taxpayers' money prudently, pursues clear objectives and achieves the results it has promised.
We, as external auditors of the EU, can make a contribution to this.
Our Strategy for 2018-2020: Strengthening trust through external financial control In July 2017, we published our strategy for the period 2018-2020, in which we set four strategic goals: • Deliver clear statements for our target group; • Focus more on the performance aspects of EU action; • Improve the added value of the Statement of Assurance; • Focus our overall organisation on our products.
Ultimately, the EU is not about figures, but about people Through the external financial control it has exercised, the Court is able to show what is and what is not, it can support EU citizens in answering the question of whether the EU institutions are delivering them results and thus help to strengthen confidence in the EU.
In this sense, the Court's audits must also address the concerns of European citizens, its most important addressees at last instance.
The 2018-2020 strategy will identify five priority areas for the Court's work in the coming years.
Sustainable management of natural resources and combating climate change Investments for cohesion, growth and integration Challenges related to migration, security and global sustainable development A functioning internal market and a stable monetary union Financing and management of the Union, while respecting accountability and economic efficiency
Our management 29 In the course of the development of our strategy, we placed strong emphasis on internal and external consultation.
We discussed the strategy with our staff and addressed members of the European Parliament, representatives of the EU Member States, the European Commission, other Supreme Audit Institutions and non-institutional stakeholders such as scientists, think tanks, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and private sector auditors.
The Court's strategy for 2018-2020 is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Work planning In January 2017, we decided to introduce new work planning procedures, which we applied for the first time to our annual work programme for 2018, which was published in October last year.
The main changes with regard to our work planning: • drawing up a list of audit tasks for the whole Court; • centralised procedure for selecting audit ideas, possible audit tasks and final audit proposals; • a more flexible allocation of resources to and allocation of resources between the audit chambers taking into account the workload; • an extension of the product range to include audit tasks resulting from analysis-based publications; • a high-priority audit task for which shorter deadlines apply.
We also agreed with the Conference of the European Parliament's Committee Chairs a procedure in which all Parliament's standing committees can propose to the Court possible subjects of examination.
The Court's 2018 work programme is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Performance Measurement In the period 2013-2017, we used seven key performance indicators (KPIs) to inform management of the progress we have made, to support the decision-making process, and to provide information to our stakeholders about our performance.
The indicators were used to measure core parameters regarding the quality and impact of our work, taking into account the position of key stakeholders and the efficiency and effectiveness of our use of resources.
A revised set of performance indicators, valid for the period 2018-2020, will be introduced in 2018.
Quality and impact of our work We evaluated the quality and impact of our reports on the basis of assessments by addressees and by experts. Another assessment criterion was the follow-up to our recommendations to improve EU financial management.
Our management 30 assessments by the addressees We asked our main institutional addressees and peers – the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Council's Committee on Budgets, the main audited bodies of the Commission and the European Agencies, as well as the presidents of the European Commission – to evaluate our reports.
As in previous years, the vast majority of respondents assessed the relevance and impact of our reports in 2017 with "high" or "very high".
Expert reviews Every year independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of our reports to assess their quality.
In 2017, the auditors assessed six special reports* and the annual reports for the financial year 2016.
They assessed the quality of different aspects of the reports on the basis of a four-stage scale of "significantly affected" (1) to "high-quality" (4).
Results have changed only slightly in recent years, with the quality of our reports being "satisfactory". * In 2017, the reviewers assessed our special reports No. 3/2017, No. 4/2017, No. 5/2017, No. 10/2017, No. 14/2017 and No. 17/2017.
Assessment by addressees Assessment of relevance of reports Probable impact of reports 2 100 % very low 16 61 21 21 37 37 5 0 % 20 % very high 40 % 60 % 80 % high medium low Expert reviews of Court reports 2017 2016 2015 2014 3,3 3,2 3,3 3,1 Quality assessment 01234
Our management 31 follow-up of recommendations During the year, we systematically reviewed the extent to which our recommendations had been implemented by the audited bodies.
By the end of 2017, this was the case with 92% of the recommendations we made in 2014.
100% 80% 60% 60% 40% 20% 0% Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the year of the tax 92 % 80% 59% 53% 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Court in the media 31% 4% 65% The Court's annual reports Special reports in the general media presence In addition, we monitor, as reported in the media about our work and our institution.
In 2017, 65% of the references in the online media that related to our work and our institution were related to special reports.
Overall, the number of media reports on our special reports increased by 11% compared to 2016.
The Court's reports, which received the largest media feedback in 2017, were the special reports on the Greek financial crisis, registration centres for migrants (hotspots), fisheries control, greening and the Natura 2000 network.
Our management 32 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 Special Reports of the Court – average number of online articles per Special Report 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The increase in media reports of our special reports in 2017 is in line with a trend that has been observed for several years.
While less than 1,500 online articles were published in 2013, this number increased to almost 7,000 in 2017, with the average number of articles written per special report increased from an average of less than 30 in 2013 to almost 130 in 2017.
Our Special Report on the Greek Financial Crisis, focusing on over 2,000 online articles and contributions on social media, the largest media echo, has produced our special report on the Greek financial crisis, the use of resources in our performance measurement, and in particular our ability to carry out audits in a timely manner, to implement our work programme and to ensure the expertise of our employees.
Examination period In 2017, an average of 14.6 months passed from the start of an examination to the adoption of a special report.
This is the shortest processing time since the beginning of the period 2013-2017.
It took us less than 13 months to produce eight reports (29%) published during the year.
It took on average 16 months to publish the reports, about two months less than in 2016.
This positive trend suggests that measures will bear fruit in achieving the 13-month target set in the Financial Regulation.
18 17 16 15 14 13 12 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Duration from the beginning of the examination task until the adoption of the report
Our management 33 reports published In 2017, 65% of our special reports were published in accordance with the original plan.
The remaining reports have been postponed and will be published in 2018.
In addition, our annual reports and all special annual reports have been published according to plan.
Professional Training In accordance with the recommendations published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we strive to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training per year.
In 2017, we again exceeded this target with 6.7 training days per examiner.
If the language courses required for the efficient work of our auditors in all EU Member States are also taken into account, an examiner in 2017 accounted for an average of 8.3 training days.
For the other employees, we have set ourselves the goal of providing on average 16 hours (two days) of professional training (without language courses).
In 2017, this target was met with an average of 2.3 training days.
Average training days per examiner per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Objective ≥ 5 days 6.2 7.0 6.7 2015 2016 2017 days
Our staff 34 Human resources allocation In 2017, we completed the five-year staff reduction (2013-2017) of 5%, as stipulated in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of December 2013.
At the end of 2017, 853 officials and temporary staff worked at the Court. 548 of them worked in the Chambers of Examination, including 118 employees in the Cabinets of Members.
Recruitment The staff of the Court have a broad academic and professional background.
With our recruitment policy, we follow the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and promote equal opportunities at all levels.
Staff include both officials and temporary staff.
General selection procedures are usually organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
In 2017, the Court hired 72 staff: 29 officials, 13 temporary staff, 24 contract staff (of whom seven left the Court by the end of the year) and six seconded national experts.
In addition, we provided 71 university graduates with internship places for periods of three to five months.
Personnel allocation by the Court 137 138 123 124 49 43 Audit services 2017 Translation Administration President's services Total: 853 553 548
Our employees 35 Age profile The age profile of the active staff on 31 December 2017 shows that almost half of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
31 of the 68 directors and directors of the Court (46%) are 55 years of age or older.
As a result, the next five to ten years, when these employees retire, will result in a renewal in senior management positions.
Balance between men and women The Court pursues a policy of equal opportunities, which relates to all stages of the career of its employees.
Overall, we have achieved a balanced proportion of men and women among our employees; 43% of our auditors and boards of directors are women.
In recent years, we have succeeded in increasing the proportion of women in management positions in our examination chambers from 7% in 2015 to almost 20% in 2017.
We continue to strive to achieve a balance between men and women at all levels of management.
In addition, our equal opportunities policy for the period 2018-2020 addresses issues related to age and disability.
More detailed information on seniority and gender is given in the table below.
Age profile 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0 % 0.3 % 2.3% 4.8% 0.4 % 5 % 7.6 % 17.0% 10 % 15 % 20 % 25 % 17.1% 10.8% 21.0 % 18.7% Relationship between men and women at the level of responsibility 34% 66% Assistants and Secretaries Auditors and Boards of Directors Management 57% 43% 63% 37% 0 % 20 % 40 % 60 % 80% 100%
In 2017, we further expanded our training offering, including an increase in the number of courses in the fields of e-learning and integrated learning (blended learning).
We continued our successful series of presentations held by internal or external experts on audit developments and other subjects related to the work of our auditors.
We also organised several training sessions and events in which experts from other Supreme Audit Institutions presented knowledge and best practices on accounting audits and audits.
A good example of this is the annual "Training Day", which we organised in November 2017 in collaboration with the University of Luxembourg and in which over 300 employees participated.
We work closely with the European Commission, the European Institute for Public Administration (EIPA) and the European Administration Academy (EUSA) to provide our staff with a wide range of training courses, including courses in the field of examination and courses to develop personal skills, as well as work-related language courses.
In addition, we helped our employees to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and qualifications in the areas relevant to the role and work of the Court.
In particular, we continued our cooperation with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France), within the framework of which the postgraduate course of study "Audit of public organisations and policies" and the Master course of study "Management of public organisations" are offered.
We also signed a cooperation agreement with the European University Institute (EHI) in Florence (Italy).
In 2017, we established a partnership with the University of Pisa (Italy) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accoun theants (ACCA) to organise a summer course in the field of public financial control and accountability.
Last year, we awarded the best submitted contribution with the award awarded by the Court in 2016 for scientific work in the field of audit in the public sector.
37 We continued our "Performance Recognition Awards" programme, which enables non-executive employees to participate in specific external training.
Translation The Directorate for Translations, Language Services, and Publication of the Court translated and revised more than 211 000 pages.
We continued our efforts to streamline translation and reduce the costs involved.
For example, all our translation teams are now using a collaborative working platform to increase efficiency.
We strive to increasingly involve our translators in our core activities and to create further synergies with our auditors.
In particular, in 2017 the translators increasingly supported the auditors in the linguistic preparation of the special reports and the annual report.
In addition, they provided our examiners with linguistic support at 38 test visits.
Information technology Our IT directorate makes a decisive contribution to our audit processes by optimising information flows using modern and secure technologies.
We made further progress in document management and were able to fully digitise production, acceptance and publication processes.
We introduced a simplified tool to facilitate remote access via mobile devices.
We also carried out a system upgrade (installation of Windows 10 and SharePoint 2013).
In order to make even better use of interinstitutional synergies, we introduced new systems of audit, mission and training, which are currently being used by other EU institutions.
Support for audit activities 38 buildings The Court currently owns three buildings (K1, K2, K2, K3, K3, K1, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K1, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K1, K2, K2, K3, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K3, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K1, K1, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K1, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K2, K3, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K2, K1, K1, K2, K2, K2, K3, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K3, K3, K2, K2, K2, K3, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K3, K2, K3, K2, K3, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K1, K3, K2, K3, K2, K1, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K3, K2, K3, K2, K3, K2, K2, K2, K3, K2, K2, K2, K2, K3, and K2, K2, K2, K2, K, K2, K2, K2, K2, K, K2, K2, and K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K3, K2, and K2, K2, and K2, and K2, and K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K2, K, K2, K
K1 The K1 building, which was opened in 1988, has offices for up to 310 members of staff and meeting rooms.
The basements have parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, the library and the main archive, while the entire top floor is used for technical facilities.
The K1 building was modernised in 2008 in order to bring it into line with national health, safety and environmental requirements.
As far as possible, the technology in the K1 building was adapted to achieve compatibility with the K2 and K3 buildings.
As a result, the three buildings form a single integrated technical unit.
K2 The K2 building was opened in 2003.
The basements have parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms and the fitness centre.
The entire top floor is used for technical installations.
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees, with meeting rooms, a conference room with interpreting booths, video conference rooms, a cafeteria and a basic kitchen area.
The Court commissioned a study to assess the feasibility of setting up activity-related areas of work and the modernisation of the K2 technical installations.
The study shows that the design of the work areas could be improved and that some technical facilities need to be modernised.
A detailed study of this project will be carried out in 2018 and work is expected to begin in 2019.
As approved by the Council and the European Parliament in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining funds in the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation.
Safety control center 2018 27 m2 2 K1 1988 26 550 m2 310 K3 K2 2003 21 500 m2 241 Year of construction Total gross area (m2) Jobs 2012 34 500 m2 503
Support for audit activities 39 K3 The K3 building was opened in 2012.
The basements contain parking spaces, technical facilities, storage facilities, unloading areas, waste storage facilities, printing facilities, kitchens and archives.
The ground floor consists of the canteen, a cafeteria and training rooms.
In addition, there are offices for 503 employees, meeting rooms and an IT room in this building.
On the sixth floor there are reception rooms, a kitchen and technical facilities.
Based on the world's leading methodology for assessing and certifying the sustainability of buildings (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, BREEAM), the K3 building was rated "very well".
Project for safety at work In 2017, the project aimed at strengthening the safety of the court and its employees was continued according to plan.
The new security control center, the external accreditation center and access control center for employees and visitors will be put into operation in 2018.
Environmental management As an institution of the European Union, we consider it our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all activities and we strive to reduce the environmental impact of the Court continuously.
In 2017, we received the certificate for the Eco Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS).
We now successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015.
Our goal is to systematically reduce our CO2 emissions.
In 2017, we analyzed – for the third consecutive year – the greenhouse gas emissions generated by our activities (i.e. our carbon footprint).
The results of this study are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Accountability of the 40 Court Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union, the budget of which falls within the area of administrative expenditure.
In 2017, the Court's budget amounted to around 141 million euros.
This represents less than 0.1% of total EU expenditure and approximately 1.5% of total EU administrative expenditure.
The share of appropriations used in the budget for 2017 was 98%.
Implementation of the budget 2017 BUDGET YEAR 2017 Final appropriations Commitments Use of appropriations in % Payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 – Members of the institution 11 200 10 672 95 % 10 598 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 102 470 101 088 99 % 101 010 14 – Other staff and external services 5 716 5 464 96 % 5 333 162 – Missions 3 450 3 035 88 % 2 575 161 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 2775 2 530 91 % 1901 Subtotal Title 1 125611 122 789 98 % 121 417 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 20 – Buildings 3 546 3 541 99 % 1 669 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 8 148 8 148 100 % 4 563 212 + 214 + 216 – furniture and ancillary costs 999 94 % 736 23 – Running operating expenditure 434 293 68% 221 25 – Meetings and conferences 733 264 91 % Subtotal Title 914
Court's accountability 41 Budget 2018 The 2018 Budget's appropriations show an increase of 3.4% compared to 2017.
Budget 2018 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 20 – Building 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212 + 214 + 216 – Mobile and ancillary expenses 23 – Current operating expenses 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications 12 515 11300 106 600 103 632 5 745 5 101 3 450 3 450 2 930 3 216 7 492 7 408 1 157 925 555 438 706 676 1876 2306 HOUSEHOLD 2018 2017 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 161 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 2 990 2788 Subtotal Title 1 131300 126 271 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure Subtotal Title 2 14 716 14969 Total 146016 141240
Court's accountability 42 Risk management During the year, we reviewed the risk assessments prepared for each Directorate, as required by the Financial Regulation.
The results of these controls shall be included in the annual statement by the authorising officer by delegation in the annual activity report and shall be used in the risk assessments of the following year.
As far as necessary, we prepared action plans for ex ante and ex post controls.
In September 2017, after carrying out these reviews, we strengthened internal controls and financial procedures related to travel expenses and the management of service vehicles.
Internal and external audit Internal audit The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk management issues.
It shall deliver opinions on the quality of the administrative and internal control systems and shall report to a Committee on Internal Audit, composed of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee regularly monitors the progress made in the various tasks defined in the annual work programme of the Internal Audit Service and ensures the independence of the Service.
In 2017, the department examined the implementation of the Court's 2013-2017 strategy, the operational structure of the President's Services Directorate, and the management of our software licenses and products.
It also examined the implementation of the Court's risk management policy and monitored the implementation of its recommendations to ensure that the action plans take shape.
The Internal Auditor considers that in 2017, the existing governance, risk management and internal control procedures as a whole provide sufficient assurance that the Court's objectives will be met.
We report annually to Parliament and to the Council on the results of the internal audit work.
External audit Our financial statements are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying to itself the same principles of transparency and accountability as to the bodies it is examining.
The auditor's report – PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à r.l. – on the Court's financial statements for the financial year 2016 was published on 31 October 2017.
Discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2017, the European Parliament granted discharge to our Secretary-General in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2015.
This means that our financial statements for 2015 have been finally approved.
As in every year, we have carefully analysed the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility, taken appropriate measures and reported to the European Parliament on our follow-up.
The Court's assessment of the Court's financial statements 43 The independent auditor's assessment of the Court's financial statements: "In our opinion, the financial statements of the Court of Auditors reflect the real situation of the Court of Auditors' assets and financial position as at 31 December 2016 and its financial position, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ending on that financial date in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation of the European Union's general budget and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 160, 31.5.2012, p.
1), hereinafter referred to as "the Financial Regulation", and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules for applying the Financial Regulation (the Financial Regulation).
Declaration by the Plenipotentiary 44 Authorising Officer The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, • • - - - that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and that the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes provided and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, that the control procedures provided provide the necessary assurance of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and that the costs and benefits of the checks are proportionate to the appropriate management of fraud or suspected fraud.
This security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and the information at his disposal, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers by subdelegation, the reports of the internal auditor and the audit reports of the independent auditor on previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 8 March 2018 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
The Environmental Impact Assessment Report on the Cohesion and Rural Development Programmes 2014-2020 The Commission's negotiations on the Partnership Agreements and Cohesion Policy 2014-2020: the priorities of Europe 2020: Special Report No 1/2017: the priorities of the Natura 2000: the Commission's 2014-2020 Special Report No 2/2017: the negotiations of the 2014-2020 Partnership Agreements and programmes for the 2014-2020 Cohesion Fund and the 2020 Cohesion Fund and the 2014-2020 Cohesion Fund for the 2014-2020 Special Report for the 2014-2020 Cohesion Fund for the 2014-2020 period: the 2014-2020 Partnership Agreement for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Special Report for the 2014-2020 Framework Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014 and 2020 Framework Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Framework Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Framework Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the Cohesion and the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme of the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 Programme for the 2014-2020 for the 2014-in-in-2020 Programme for the Framework for the 2014-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-in-the-in-in-the-in-in-the-in-in-in-the-in-in-in-in-the-the-in-the-the-the-in-the-the-in-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-in-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-the-in-be-the-the-the-be-the-be-the-the-the-the-the-
Publications subject to charge: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu). © European Union, 2018 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
DE 2018 Activity Report
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/ContactForm.aspx Website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditors 02 A great deal of additional information on the European Union is available on the Internet. It can be accessed through the Europa server (http://europa.eu).
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2019 Print ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-1854-2 HTML ISBN 978-92-847-1818-4 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/092674 doi:10.2865/049466 doi:10.2865/607255 QJ-AA-19-001-EN-C QJ-AA-19-001-EN-N QJ-AA-19-001-EN-Q
1 The College of Members of the European Court of Auditors on 1 May 2018
Content President's Preface 5 2018 at a glance 6 Our Activities 7 Strategy 7 Focus – the communication activity around our products 8 Exams 10 Work planning 12 On-site audits 13 Publications 17 Key events 37 Relations with institutional addressees 41 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKB) 44 Our Management 46 The College of Court Members 46 Audit Chambers and Committees 49 Performance measurement 50 Our Staff 58 Personnel allocation 58 Personnel recruitment 58 Age profile 59 Balance between men and women 60 2
Supporting audit activities 62 Professional training 62 Translation 63 Information, working environment and innovation 64 Building 65 Strengthening the Court's security 67 Environmental management 67 Court's accountability 68 Financial information 68 Internal and external audit 70 Declaration by authorising officer by delegation 73 Annex – Publications in 2018: Special reports, annual reports, opinions and analytical products 74 3
European Court of Auditors 4 About the Court The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the external auditor of the European Union.
It was established in 1977 and is one of the seven institutions of the EU.
The Court is based in Luxembourg and employs around 900 staff from all EU nationalities, composed of auditors and staff in horizontal services and administration.
The College of the Court shall be composed of one member from each EU Member State.
The Court's tasks The Court shall verify that the EU ensures proper accounting, that its financial rules are correctly applied and that its policies and programmes achieve the objectives and that the financial resources are used optimally.
Through its audit work, the Court contributes to improving the financial management of the EU and to promoting accountability and transparency.
The Court makes its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, national governments and parliaments and to the general public.
Foreword of the President 5 Dear reader, dear reader!
We are now increasingly focusing on assessing the performance of EU measures, conveying our statements in a clear form to the Hof's audience and increasing the value of our work for our stakeholders.
In this activity report, we provide an overview of our work in 2018, in which we published the highest number of special reports, analyses and comments so far.
You will also find information about our employees, our management and our finances.
Our reports offer an impartial assessment of the Union's policies and programmes and of the quality of EU financial management within and outside the European Union.
We are examining whether EU expenditure is in line with the rules and whether the Union's policies and programmes ensure optimum use of resources.
We will be delighted to work with the newly elected European Parliament and the new European Commission to further improve EU financial management and ensure that the EU achieves results.
In this report, our determination to continue to adapt the Court's organisation in order to continue to "sustain our preparation for the future" and to continue to shape developments in the field of public sector audit.
2018 at a glance 44 record number of record number of publications presented by EU legislators 43 European Parliament 44 Council Global Audit Leadership Forum participated in some 45 international activities 834 staff from all Member States 50 : 50 PROFESSIONAL PRESENTATION OF MEN AND WHITE BEDENTER Annual Report on the EU budget: Unlimited review of the EU's accounting record in opinions: 10, mainly on the MFF for 2021-2027 Impact of our work: Limited review of the payments 6 on publications: 35 special reports 9 Analysis-based publications record number Most of our recommendations implemented High media coverage: +17 000 online article 4 new members of the Court 5 members' extensions of the term of office for which our work is considered appropriate and effective in the social media 11 million times indicated
Our activities Strategy 2018 is the first year of our current strategy, which covers the period up to and including 2020.
Our strategic objectives for this three-year period are: to improve the added value of the Statement of Assurance with a view to the current EU financial management; to improve the focus on the performance aspects of EU measures; to provide clear statements for our audience.
In addition, we have agreed to align our overall organisation even better with our products.
In order to implement our strategy, we have agreed an action plan for these objectives in order to continue to be among the frontrunners in developments in the field of public sector audit.
At the end of 2018, all of these measures were under way.
At the same time, we have already commissioned an independent peer review process for the implementation of our strategy. The review will be completed at the end of 2019 – more information in the Chapter on the Court's Accountability.
Progress towards our strategic objectives 7
The focus – the communication activity around our products Communicating clear statements for our audience Communication is crucial if we are to achieve our strategic goal of conveying clear statements for our audience. This consists of the political bodies of the EU and of the Member States responsible for the control and management of the policies and programmes of the Union, of the other supreme audit authorities, of companies and industry organisations, of scientists and not least of the general public – our most important stakeholder.
In 2018, we experienced the media's interest in our work.
Above all, our special reports met with great interest in the media and were also discussed more and more in national and EU-oriented media channels – further information in the chapter on media presence.
In 2018, we published 12 audit previews (previously referred to as "background papers") which are intended to serve as a source of information for all those interested in specific policy areas or programmes for which audits are in progress.
The information presented in it is based on the preparatory work prior to the start of an ongoing examination task.
Audit previews have contributed to the stable and balanced output of the Court's publications throughout the year: 2018 was the first year in which there was not a single month without a publication of the ECA.
We will continue to publish these types of communication products in 2019. 8
Journal While our findings and recommendations for improving EU financial management are set out in our audit reports, the Court Journal focuses on our working methods and our staff who produce reports on various areas.
Now each issue is dedicated to a different parent theme.
In 2018, the Court's journal targeted a range of topics such as EU pre-accession assistance, Parliament's financing and audit and EU financial and economic governance, as well as our special reports, our work programme, our international cooperation and our forward-looking actions, with the aim of "equiping the Court for the future".
An insight into our facility 9 Downloads 2018 2017 9 314 16 357
Assessments More focused on performance We carry out different types of audits in the different areas of the EU budget: o Economic Assessments – The effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes are considered here.The focus of these audits on the optimum use of funds is on specific management or budget issues.
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court shall consider the risks to the economy or compliance, the level of revenue or expenditure and the political and public interest concerned; o Audits of the accounts and compliance audits shall be considered here the reliability of the annual accounts, and the legality and regularity of the underlying financial operations, in particular in the context of the Statement of Assurance, as well as the assessment of the compliance of the systems in specific budgetary areas with the rules.
Our random sampling procedure ensures the same probability of testing for each euro spent.
Our audits focus on issues that reflect issues relevant to the EU, such as the sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, the challenges of migration and global development, the internal market and the banking union, as well as ensuring that the European Union is accountable and economically viable.
On the basis of the evidence obtained during our audit work, our reports draw clear conclusions on the extent to which the EU's policy objectives have been achieved, as well as the state of the Union's budgetary and financial management.
Our audits are in line with internationally recognised auditing principles for the public sector.
The examination work is divided into the following phases: 10
PLANTING Identifying the usefulness and feasibility of a proposed audit.
On-site audit work On-site multi-disciplinary teams gather audit evidence in the Commission's central services and in Member States and recipient countries.
CONSOLIDATION 03 04 05 06 11 01 02 Clear, structured presentation of the main findings and conclusions.
CLARification Confirmation of the facts and findings by the body examined.
Acceptance of the report by the Chamber of Examining or the whole College of Court.
PUBLICATION Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the reply of the audited body.
Work planning Audit priorities are based on the main interests of the EU Our work programme is adopted annually by the members of the Court.
In January 2018, President Lehne presented the work programme for 2018 to the Conference of Committee Chairs of the European Parliament and asked all parliamentary committees to propose potential audit topics for the 2019 work programme as part of the annual stakeholder consultations.
12 In October 2018, we published the first work programme under the new strategy. In this work programme for 2019, we presented our audit priorities and the 36 reports and analysis-based products the publication of which is planned for this year.
These tasks covered, at least in part, 29 of the 69 proposals submitted by Parliament (42%) (2017: 32%).
Our audits will continue to focus on key issues such as the sustainable use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, migration, security and global development, the internal market and the accountability and economy of the EU to determine whether the EU achieves what it has promised.
On-site exams 3 761 days of examination work – inside and outside the EU The majority of our examination work takes place on the premises of the Court in Luxembourg.
At the same time, our auditors also carry out numerous audit visits to the European Commission, the main body audited by the Court, including the other EU institutions, agencies and bodies and EU delegations, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, and international organisations to which EU funds are directed.
In addition, we carry out on-the-spot audits on recipients of EU funds within and outside the European Union.
These audits will enable us to understand the audit path and to obtain direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the management of Union policies and programmes and the collection or disbursement of EU funds, and from the respective beneficiaries. 13
The frequency and intensity of our audit work in the individual Member States and recipient countries depend on the type of audit we carry out.
In 2018, our auditors spent 3 761 days (2017: 3 670 days) with on-site audits in Member States and outside the EU.
Within the EU, our on-site audits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States visited.
In addition, our auditors spent 2,723 days (2017: 2,300 days) with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, with decentralised agencies and bodies throughout the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations and the OECD, as well as with auditors.
To obtain and validate audit evidence, we are increasingly making use of video conferencing and other information technologies, such as the secure exchange of data and documents. 14
The 2018 IP visits, both within and outside the EU, involve 15 days 15 Italy Germany Poland France Spain Greece Portugal Netherlands Sweden Romania Czech Republic Bulgaria Slovenia United Kingdom Lithuania Finland Denmark Estonia Austria Hungary Cyprus 40 Belgium 38 Ireland 37 Slovakia 34 Latvia 22 Croatia 12 Malta 10 Luxembourg 3 Saint Lucia 1 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1 Albania 3 Dominica 3 Switzerland 6 Canada 10 Norway 11 Algeria 14 Botswana 18 Laos 19 Tunisia 19 Kenya 20 Ethiopia 21 Lebanon 21 Niger 21 Sierra Leone 23 Guinea 25 Ukraine 25 Djibouti 26 Japan 26 United States 26 Isr ael 27 Mozambique 28 Barbados 30 Haiti 33 Turkey 33 231 185 176 147 136 122 101 94 85 83 70 65 64 56 51 355 347 335 292 Third countries (489 days) 6 480 audit days EU institutions and international organisations (2 723 audit days) of which: Brussels and Luxembourg (1 637 audit days) EU Member States (3 272 audit days) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 Note: Differences in sum-raising are round-up-related.
Fighting fraud against the EU budget Nine cases of suspected fraud In the fight against fraud against the EU budget, we work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
These cases will then be followed up by OLAF, which will decide on possible investigations and, if necessary, cooperate with the authorities of the Member States.
Although our tests are not specifically designed to detect fraud, we occasionally encounter cases where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activities.
In 2018, we forwarded nine such cases (2017: 13 cases) that we suspected of fraud to OLAF.
Additional information on the nature of fraud suspected of OLAF and the related recoveries, as recommended by OLAF, can be found in our annual reports on the general budget of the EU. 16
Publications New record: highest number of publications in 2018 Our audit reports, analyses and opinions form an important link in the EU's accountability chain.
They help the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to monitor and verify the EU's achievement of its policy objectives and to bring to account the EU's bodies responsible for the budgetary management, in particular in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
These are primarily the European Commission, but also the other EU institutions and bodies.
National, regional and local authorities in the Member States also play an important role in areas of shared management in which the bulk of the EU budget is spent, including agricultural and cohesion measures.
Number of special reports and analysis-based publications (2015-2018) 17 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 22 38 30 44 Year Number of publications
For our publications: special and annual reports o special reports describing the results of selected audits of specific policy or expenditure areas or of budgetary and management issues; o annual reports focusing on the results of the audits of the accounts and compliance audits of the European Union budget and on the European Development Funds, but also on aspects of budgetary management and performance aspects; o special annual reports on EU agencies, decentralised bodies and joint undertakings published separately.
Opinions and analysis-based publications o Opinions on new or amended acts with a significant impact on financial management which are either mandatory under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) or are drawn up at the request of another body or at the Court's own initiative; o Thematic papers are descriptive and analytical documents on policies or management which focus on specific issues; o Landscape analyses are similar to thematic papers, but focuss on complex, broad policy areas or management issues, often from a cross-cutting perspective; o Rapid Case Reviews, which put together facts related to very clearly defined specific issues or problems; if necessary, they include an evaluation which allows a better understanding of these facts.
Finally, we present background information about future or ongoing audit tasks in the form of audit previews – additional information in the chapter on communication activity around our products.
All the Court's publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu) and are listed at the end of this report. 18
19 6ANNUAL REPORTS Annual reports: • EU budget • European Development Fund • 41 EU agencies and bodies • 8 Joint research enterprises • European schools • Contingent liabilities of the SRB, the Commission and the Council 2018 Publications of the European Council Topics papers: NEW • Future of finance Audit plans 35 SPECIAL REPORTS Full list on page 21 Opinions: • EU finance and the rule of law • European Monetary Fund • European Development Fund • Protection of EU whistleblowers • Future of the CAP • Simplification of research programmes • Integration of migrants • Simplification of cohesion policy • New Multiannual Financial Framework Landscape analyses • Application of Union law • Mobility and transport Rapid analysis • VAT refund in the area of cohesion • Animal welfare • Food safety • Wind energy and photovoltaics • Eco-produced food Supervision in the EU insurance sector • Facility for refugees in Turkey • Transnational health care • Consultation of the public • Desertification • Electronic commerce • Aid fund for the most disadvantageous • Competition rules • Reform of own resources • Reform of the cohesion policy • Trans-European energy policy • European Union Aid Facility in the area of the Union
Special Reports We assess the performance of the EU actions in our Special Reports In line with our strategy for 2018-2020, we are increasingly focusing on assessing the performance of the EU actions in order to ensure the best use of EU citizens' resources.
In 2018, we published 35 special reports (2017: 28 special reports) on the various areas of EU expenditure in which we addressed the challenges facing the EU, such as air pollution, the high-speed rail network, the Refugee Facility in Turkey, banking supervision and the financing of non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
In these special reports, we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved in an effective and economic way, and whether EU funds have provided added value – i.e. whether they have achieved more than they can be achieved by action alone at national level.
We also make recommendations on financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste, or more cost-effectively achieving the policy objectives sought.
At this point, we will examine two of our 2018 special reports: a special report on high-speed rail transport in the EU and one on the Facility for Refugees in Turkey.
In accordance with the EU Financial Regulation, we strive to produce our special reports within 13 months. 20
• Social and regional policy • Social policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Social policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Social policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Social policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Social policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional Social policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Social policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional planning • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Social policy • Regional planning • Regional policy • Regional regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional planning • Regional planning • Regional planning • Regional planning • Regional policy • Local planning • Local planning • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional planning • Social policy • Regional policy • Social policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Regional policy • Social • Regional policy • Regional structural policy • Regional planning • Social policy •
Special report in focus European high-speed rail network: not a reality, but an ineffective patchwork High-speed rail transport has many benefits for passengers.
It is a convenient, secure, flexible and environmentally sustainable mode of transport.
Improved links between regions in the EU will also make them more competitive and contribute to European integration by bringing people closer to each other.
In this way we analyzed the various connections, travel times and prices for business and private travellers.
We also examined whether the co-financed investments in high-speed rail links were cost-effective and effective and well thought out and planned.
The Court concluded that the European high-speed rail network was only an inefficient patchwork of lines in each Member State that were not sufficiently interconnected.
There is no realistic long-term plan for connecting the various parts of the existing EU network; high-speed lines crossing national borders are not the priorities of the individual Member States and the European Commission does not have the powers to force Member States to do so.
In such circumstances, EU co-financing for high-speed rail transport will achieve little added value.
However, there is also a good news: the number of passengers using high-speed rail in Europe is growing steadily. Thus, there has been an increase from around 15 billion passenger-km in 1990 to over 124 billion in 2016.
Both institutions welcomed the report and agreed with our conclusions.
We also presented it to numerous national authorities and SAIs as well as to researchers, industry stakeholders and the media.
Throughout the EU, the media, in particular EU-oriented media and financial media, dealt extensively with this report, in particular in Spain and Germany.
DE – Time: Rail lines: development of fast rail lines in EU too expensive and too slow IT – La Repubblica: Alta velocità nell'Ue, la Corte dei Conti europea boccia la rete UK – Financial Times: Bloc critical over high-speed rail strategy ES – El cinco días: Los auditors de la UE criticalan la incoherencia de los trazados del AVE
Special report in focus The Facility for Refugees in Turkey: Support is helpful, but optimal use of funds can only be achieved with improvements Turkey has received as many refugees as no other country in the world, with almost 4 million people.
About 3.5 million of these refugees are Syrians, most of whom live outside refugee camps.
Support under the Facility for Refugees in Turkey, which the EU and its Member States have endowed with a total of €6 billion, covers humanitarian and non-Humanitarian activities for refugees and host communities.
As a result of the political agreement, Turkey was required to end irregular migration from Turkey to the EU.
Humanitarian projects have met the basic needs of refugees, but in some cases the expected optimal use of the funds or the aim of the Facility, an effective coordination of this support, has not been achieved.
Support for refugees has been provided through the humanitarian projects audited.
For example, the Social Security Network for Emergency Situations helped 1.3 million refugees through cash aid.
However, half of the projects have not yet achieved the expected impact – a lasting positive impact that can be sustained without further financial support – and nine out of ten projects had to be extended.
The time-consuming implementation of projects managed by NGOs was mainly hampered by the difficult working environment.
This was due to the refusal of the Turkish authorities to provide access to the data of the eligible beneficiaries of the two cash assistance projects in our sample, totalling EUR 1.1 billion.
We presented our report at a joint meeting at which the Committee on Development, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament participated, and subsequently also the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
It was also presented to the Enlargement and Candidate Countries Group of the EU Council and the press.
In Germany in particular, this report has attracted a great deal of media interest, but also in Denmark, Austria, the Benelux and the Mediterranean countries, and in the EU-oriented media.
25 DE – Der Spiegel: Court of Auditors criticises shortcomings in EU refugee assistance FR – EurActiv: La Cour des comptes plutôt satisfaite de lôaide aux réfugiés en Turquie ES – Euronews: Turquía debe rendir cuentas por la gestión de los refugiados UK – EU Observer: EU unable to fully trace €1 bn critic on refugees in Turkey
Annual reports Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2017 Annual accounts, full audit opinion on revenue, limited audit opinion on expenditure Every year, we review the revenue and expenditure of the EU budget and examine whether the annual accounts are reliable and the revenue and expenditure operations are in line with the financial rules at EU and Member State level.
In addition, we assess all the key areas of the EU budget specifically, on the basis of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) headings for the period 2014-2020, and provide information on the budgetary and financial management and performance-related information.
Furthermore, we analyse why errors have occurred, make recommendations on possible improvements and examine whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been put into practice.
As part of our most recent annual report on the EU budget for the 2017 financial year, our auditors examined a sample of some 700 payments, worth a total of 100 billion euros to beneficiaries in the various areas of EU budget expenditure.
This means that we analysed some 700 different cases where EU funds were used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries.
26 Key data EU expenditure 2017 EUR 137.4 billion Audited amount EUR 100.2 billion (703 payment transactions) Auditing According to actual circumstances – Reliability confirms revenue Legally and properly – Unqualified audit opinion Expenditure Restricted (and no failed) audit opinion, except for legal and legal reimbursements
The downward trend in estimated error rates continues This extensive work forms the basis for our Statement of Assurance, which we must submit to the European Parliament and to the Council, in accordance with our mandate set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
As in previous years, the Court gave an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the revenue of the EU.
Furthermore, for the second year in a row, we were able to present a limited (and not a failed) assessment of EU expenditure.
A significant part of the audited expenditure in 2017 did not have a significant error rate.
In addition, the estimated error rate for the payments for 2017 was 2.4%, compared with 3.1% in 2016 and 3.8% in 2015.
Parliament's discharge procedure is launched The publication of our annual report is at the beginning of the discharge procedure carried out by the European Parliament, in which the EU's legislative and budgetary authority, on the recommendation of the Council, decides whether the Commission's and other bodies' management of the EU budget is satisfactory.
We presented our annual report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control on 4 October at the same time as it was published, and subsequently to the plenary session of the European Parliament and the ECOFIN Council, as well as to the national parliaments and authorities of 14 Member States.
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and Mr Lazarou, Member of the Court, at the presentation of our annual report at the plenary session of the European Parliament in Strasbourg in November 2018 28
For cohesion expenditure, we assessed the 2014-2020 control and reliability framework and the reliability of the information provided by the Commission to demonstrate regularity.
This was a first step towards the potential design of the Statement of Assurance as a test-oriented audit.
With the revised approach and the transition to a testat-oriented audit, we generally intend to take greater account of the different internal control levels of the European Commission and of the authorities of the Member States responsible for managing EU expenditure.
It is therefore clearer where weaknesses remain both within the European Commission and within the Member States, enabling us to contribute to the promotion of accountability and to the further improvement of EU financial management.
This approach will only apply if the relevant conditions laid down in international auditing principles are complied with. 29
Annual report on the European Development Funds Failed audit opinion on payments Under the European Development Funds (EDF), the European Union provides assistance for development cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the overseas countries and territories.
The EDFs are financed by the Member States of the Union and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank.
Key data on our audit opinions on EDFs are given below.
Special annual reports Agencies and other institutions Unrestricted audit judgement for all EU agencies other than one EU agencies are based all over Europe and employ around 11 000 staff.
The 2017 budget of all agencies combined – with the exception of the Single Resolution Committee (SRB) – amounted to EUR 3.5 billion, representing approximately 2.7% of the EU total budget.
The SRB's 2017 budget, financed by contributions from credit institutions, amounted to 6.6 billion euros.
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) in London, which is moving to Amsterdam New approach: a single report on all 41 EU agencies In 2018, we decided to present the results of our audit of the accounts in EU agencies in a more user-friendly format.
While we continued to provide individual statements of assurance for each agency, we published a single annual report on all agencies, including a summary document, entitled "Short Information on the Review of EU Agencies".
As every year, we have also published our annual reports on the European Schools and the possible liabilities of the SRB, the Commission and the Council. 31
Seats of agencies in the Member States 32 * Following the United Kingdom's decision to withdraw from the EU, the Council decided to move the EMA and the EBA to Amsterdam and Paris in 2019.
Joint Undertakings Unrestricted audit judgement for all European Joint Research Undertakings other than a Joint Undertaking is the EU's public-private partnerships with industry, research groups and Member States, which play an important role in the implementation of certain aspects of the EU's research policy.
The European Commission is the member of the Joint Undertaking of the public sector and represents the EU.
Private members include various partners from industry and research.
One of the main objectives of the Joint Undertaking is to attract contributions from members from the private industry and the research sector, which is their added value.
33 Main Conclusions Overall, our review of the agencies confirmed the positive results of previous years for the year ending 31 December 2017.
We gave unqualified opinions on the reliability of the accounts for all the agencies; unqualified opinions on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts of all the agencies; and full opinions on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts of all the agencies, with the exception of a failed opinions on the accounts for the European Asylum Support Office, which identified a number of problems.
Main conclusions o We have drawn up the accounts of all the EU Joint Undertakings for the financial year 2017 and confirmed their reliability. o Seven Joint Undertakings received full audit opinions on their revenue and payment transactions; the Joint Undertaking "Electronic Components and Systems for the Leadership of Europe" received a limited audit opinion, since the auditors have identified problems that have in some cases been countered by effective internal control.
Opinions We also contribute to improving the EU's fiscal governance by publishing opinions on Commission proposals for new or amended legislation.
In the case of acts with significant financial implications, the Court's opinions are required under EU law.
These are mainly used by the legislative authority – the European Parliament and the Council – in their work.
Opinions may also be initiated at the request of other institutions or at the Court's own initiative.
In 2018, we published ten opinions – the highest number so far – on various areas of EU governance.
First, they concerned mainly the Commission's legislative proposals for the new MFF, such as the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), the effectiveness of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and its cooperation with the future European Public Prosecutor's Office (EUStA), and the linking of EU funding with respect for the rule of law and the protection of whistleblowers.
Focus – Opinion on CAP reform A more environmentally friendly and consistently performance-based CAP, focusing more on accountability When the European Commission published its legislative proposal for the new CAP after 2020, it stressed that environmental and climate objectives would be given a very high priority.
However, in our opinion on the reform of the CAP, we pointed out that many of the policy options proposed differed only slightly from the current CAP regime.
In particular, most of the budget will still be direct payments to farmers based on the number of own or used hectares.
We also noted that this instrument is not the most economical way to support a decent income and that it does not take into account many environmental concerns.
Moreover, the Commission's assessment of the contribution of the CAP to the EU's climate change objectives seemed unrealistic to us, and the Court therefore recommends more environmentally friendly and consistently performance-based plans for the next CAP, which should also focus more on accountability. 34
In accordance with the procedure we apply in our reports, this opinion was presented to the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council, stakeholders in the environmental and agricultural sectors and the press. 35
Analysis-based publications: Landscape analyses, subject papers, and rapid case reviews Analytical overview of publicly available information and the Court's own work Landscape analyses In 2018 we produced two Landscape analyses.
In the first, the Court examined the application of Union law in practice and explained that the Commission's supervisory activities in relation to the application of Union law by the Member States should be strengthened.
In the second landscape analysis, we dealt with mobility and transport and considered it the cornerstone of European integration.
However, we expressed concerns about the investment backlog, as the modernisation of the EU transport network is hampered by the decline in investment in transport infrastructure.
Topic papers In 2018, we published a total of six thematic papers: five on the Commission's proposals for the future MFF and one on the integration of migrants in the EU.
The Court's comments on the MFF focused in particular on the proposed procedure for setting expenditure priorities for the EU, the flexibility of the EU budget, the performance orientation and the simplification of administration and the accountability and audit arrangements.
We welcomed the Commission's efforts to modernise the EU budget after 2020, but at the same time highlighted several potential risks, identified a number of weaknesses and suggested concrete improvements.
We pointed out that effective parliamentary scrutiny of sound accountability rules is needed, and that the Court should, in principle, be the external auditor for all the institutions created by the EU.
Rapid Case Reviews In the only rapid analysis we presented in 2018 on cohesion, we found that the reimbursement of value added tax (VAT) is prone to error and does not always represent an optimal use of EU funds.
We felt that the reimbursement of VAT to public bodies for expenditure co-financed by the EU should no longer be possible for the period after 2020. 36
Conference on Financial Instruments In January 2018, we organised a joint high-level conference on EU financial instruments in Vilnius in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania.
The event gave high-level experts from EU institutions and Lithuanian institutions, experts and other public and private stakeholders the opportunity to share their views and ideas.
Symposium on the Public Financing of Parliaments In March 2018, the Court hosted a two-day international symposium on the public financing of Parliaments in Europe in its premises to discuss their autonomy and the analysis of the budgetary systems of the EU Member States.
Global Audit Leadership Forum In April 2018, we hosted the fifth meeting of the Global Audit Leadership Forum, where the presidents and representatives of around 20 Supreme Audit Institutions from around the world met.
The main areas discussed were the practice and limitations of the impact assessment in the political context and the challenges and opportunities in the transmission of audit findings in the digital age. 37
38 Fifth meeting of the Global Audit Leadership Forum in April 2018, at which the presidents of around twenty Supreme Audit Institutions from around the world met at the European Court of Auditors Europe Day – EU Open Day In May 2018, we attended the events on the occasion of Europe Day in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg.
At the information booths, the visitors were able to obtain information from our examiners about our role and work and learn first-hand how tests were carried out.
We will continue to organise open days in the European Court of Auditors and participate in public events in order to get in touch with citizens.
Symposium on Good Public Administration In September 2018, we attended a symposium on the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations and on public governance entitled "Good Public Administration and Benefits for Citizens – The Role of Parliamentary Control Bodies", organized by the Austrian Court of Auditors, the Secretariat of the INTOSAI and the Austrian People's Prosecutors' Office.
Conference on the Application of Union Law In September 2018, we hosted a conference on the application of Union law, which then discussed the need for accountability, transparency and scrutiny for our Landscape analysis on the application of Union law in practice.
This event took place in the Committee of the Regions in Brussels.
Conference on e-commerce and related taxation In October 2018, we hosted a conference on e-commerce and the challenges of taxation in the digital age.
Speakers and panel participants discussed the risks of the current tax model for VAT in e-commerce and suggested alternative tax models aimed at the use of modern technology, such as blockchain.
Conference of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) In November 2018, we participated in the eighth annual conference of the EIOPA in Frankfurt.
The conference brought together more than 400 people from the financial services sector, academia, consumer organisations, the media, international organisations, EU institutions and national authorities.
The Court presented its audit work on supervision and financial stability in the European insurance sector, the subject of the special report on EIOPA in 2018. 39
COP24 In December 2018, we participated in the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP24) in Katowice.
We presented our review work on air quality and its impact on climate change and vice versa and discussed the challenges of desertification and desertification in the EU – both topics were discussed in the special reports we published in 2018.
Janusz Wojciechowski, member of the Court, at the presentation of our special report on air quality in December 2018 in Katowice School project day Throughout the year, the Court staff participated in the school project day organized by the EU institutions.
17 of our staff attended their secondary schools in seven Member States and informed their students about the EU, the role of our institution and the possibilities of studying in the EU and working with the EU institutions. 40
Relations with the institutional addressees The impact of our work depends on the benefits our institutional addressees derive from it We work closely with the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments, because the impact of our work depends to a large extent on the benefits these institutions derive from our audit results and recommendations.
European Parliament The number of reports discussed in parliamentary committees is a record record The members of the Court and the audit teams are regularly invited to present their findings and recommendations to the Committee on Budgetary Control and other committees of the European Parliament and other bodies.
In the course of 2018, we presented the Parliament with 33 special reports, four opinions and six analysis-based publications.
In total, we attended 74 meetings with the Committee on Budgetary Control (2017: 60) and 38 meetings with 13 other parliamentary committees and working groups and with political groups in Parliament.
The joint annual meeting of Court representatives with Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control took place in February 2018.
In April 2018, President Lehne took part in the debate in the plenary session of the European Parliament on the discharge procedure for 2016.
In October 2018, he presented the Court's annual report on the financial year 2017 to the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and to the plenary. 41
44 presentations were also held for other relevant Council preparatory bodies (2017: 27).
In the course of the year, we presented 37 special reports, four opinions and three analysis-based publications to the Council (2017: 27).
In January 2018, during the Bulgarian Presidency, President Lehne met with Deputy Minister of Finance of Bulgaria to discuss key audit findings with regard to the 2016 discharge procedure.
In March 2018, President Lehne and Neven Mates, the Court's Special Report on Macroeconomic Imbalances, presented the report to EU finance ministers during the ECOFIN Council meeting.
This was the first time that a special report was presented to the EU finance ministers of the ECOFIN Council.
President Lehne also presented our Annual Report 2017 at the ECOFIN meeting in November, during the Austrian Presidency.
Before the meeting, President Lehne met the Austrian Federal Minister for Finance, in his capacity as Chairman of the Council on Economic and Financial Affairs, and the Minister for Public Finance of Romania – this Member State held the Presidency at the beginning of 2019 – to discuss with them our annual report 2017 and the corresponding discharge procedure and to inform them of other relevant activities of the Court.
First presentation of a special report before ECOFIN 42
Governments and parliaments of the Member States Meeting of the President of the Court with high-level government representatives in five Member States During the year, President Lehne visited and met with high-level government representatives in many EU Member States – Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Romania.
The visits were often combined with participation in an official State event or a high-level conference.
In addition, the Court members presented the 2017 Annual Report to the national parliaments and/or other national authorities of 14 Member States.
We also took the opportunity to present some of our special reports to the relevant parliamentary committees of national parliaments.
Delegations from national parliaments visit the Court on occasion, and we continue to explore how we can further deepen our cooperation with the national parliaments.
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and Mr George Pufan, Member of the Court, at a meeting with Mr Klaus Iohannis, President of Romania, in Bucharest in October 2018 43
Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKB) EU Member States SAIs In active cooperation with EU SAIs: a joint call to address weaknesses in the accountability and auditing rules for EU banking oversight Our cooperation with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States takes place in the first place within the framework of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the EU ORKB.
In October 2018, we actively participated in the annual meeting of the Contact Committee, which was hosted by the SAIs of Croatia under their own chairmanship.
The discussions focused on interaction with EU citizens and on making the SAIs accessible to the public.
Court President Klaus-Heiner Lehne spoke to the President of the EU-ORKB at the annual meeting of the Contact Committee in Dubrovnik, Croatia, in October 2018 Together with the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the 28 Member States, we appealed to the national governments and parliaments and to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission to address a number of weaknesses, which exist in the rules on accountability and audits of the EU banking supervision.
The Court also took part in the activities of several working bodies of the Contact Committee, including the Working Group on Value Added Tax, the Financial Policy Review Network, the Europe 2020 Review Network and the European Banking Union Task Force, and other activities in the field of financial reporting in the public sector, and the public procurement audit.
The Court also coordinated the preparation of the first examination scheme of the Contact Committee (youth unemployment and the vocational integration of young people), which is based on audit reports prepared by 14 EU-ORCs between 2013 and 2017.- The Court also coordinated the preparation of the first examination scheme of the Contact Committee (youth unemployment and the vocational integration of young people), which is based on audit reports prepared by 14 EU-ORCs between 2013 and 2017.
With the publication of the examination compendium, the Contact Committee will produce a new product 44
INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2018, we continued our active participation and participation in the activities of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), in particular in our role as Deputy Chair of the Committee of Technical Standards (since December 2016) and as a member of the Subcommittee for Auditing Accounting and Accounting, the Subcommittee for Auditing Compliance with Legal Standards, and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits.
We also actively participated in the activities of other INTOSAI working bodies, including in particular the peer reviews subcommittee, the working group on environmental audit, the working group on financial modernisation and regulatory reform, and the task force on the professionalisation of auditors.
We also actively participated in the activities of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI), the European Regional Group of INTOSAI, in particular in the Working Group on Environmental Audit, the Working Group on IT Audit, the Task Force on Audit & Ethics, as well as in several workshops and seminars.
The SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries of the EU We also support the SAIs of the candidate countries and the potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo1, Montenegro, northern Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey), primarily through a network comparable to the Contact Committee and through our support for activities coordinated by the OECD.
In 2018, seven auditors from SAIs from the network took part in our internship program.
We also actively contributed to the meetings and activities of this network, which included addressing issues such as auditing accounting and IT auditing.
Our Management The College of Members of the Court The term of office of the Members of the Court is six years, the term of office being renewable.
The College shall be composed of one member from each Member State.
The ECA does not play any role in the appointment and appointment of members.
In 2018, the Council appointed four new members: o Eva Lindström (Sweden), Tony Murphy (Ireland) and Hannu Takkula (Finland) on 1 March 2018 and Annemie Turtelboom (Belgium) on 1 May 2018.
In addition, the Council extended the terms of office of five members: o Pietro Russo (Italy), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain), Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) and João Figueiredo (Portugal) until 29 February 2024 and Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria) until 31 December 2024.
In 2018, the College of Court Members met 18 times (2017: 21 times).
46th meeting of the College of Court Members in Luxembourg on 28 February 2019
The role of the President is that of a first among equals (Primus inter Pares).
Its remit includes the institution's strategy, planning and performance management, communication and media work, legal issues and internal audit.
He also represents the Court in all its external relations.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected President in September 2016.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the Court, at his speech at the annual meeting of the College of Court Members and the College of Commissioners in Luxembourg in February 2018 47
The President and Members 48
Examination chambers and committees The members are assigned to one of the Court's five examination chambers.
They shall be headed by a Doyen or a Doyenne elected by the members of the group.
Each member is responsible for his or her specific duties and is assisted by his or her cabinet.
The examination work is carried out by professional examiners who work for the boards of the examination chambers.
As of December 2018, the five examination chambers were headed by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Milionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Neven Mates and Lazaros S. Lazarou.
Danièle Lamarque was chair of the Committee on Quality Control, Oscar Herics headed our Ethics Committee, and Samo Jereb headed our Audit Committee, while Rimantas Šadžius was the member responsible for institutional relations.
Decisions on wider strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President.
The European Court of Auditors comprises 10 Directorates for all its activities, of which five are of the audit chambers, one of the audit quality control, another of the president and three are of the Secretary-General.
Secretary-General and Directors Peter WELCH Director KAMMER 1 Gerhard ROSS Director KAMMER 2 Philippe FROIDURE Director KAMMER 3 Ioanna METAXOPOULOU Director KAMMER 4 Mariusz POMIENSKI Director KAMMER 5 Martin WEBER Director SERVICE OF THE PRESIDENT Geoffrey SIMPSON Director Quality Control Committee in the audit area Gailė DAGILIAO Director Translations, Language Services and Publication Zacharias KOLIAS Director Personnel, Finances and General Services Magdalena CORDERO VALDAVIDA Director Information, Environment and Innovation Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary-General 49
Performance Measurement Our new key performance indicators in the 2018-2020 strategy Since 2008, we have been using Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to inform management of the progress made towards our goals, support the decision-making process, and provide our users with information about our performance.
We have not only defined our strategy for 2018-2020, but have also adjusted our KPIs for this period.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Thus, 2018 is the first year in which we can report on these indicators.
These five KPIs provide a comprehensive overview of how we conduct our work in terms of dissemination, impact and perception. o KPI 1 – Implementation of our recommendations o KPI 2 – Stakeholders' feedback on our work o KPI 3 – Our response in the European Parliament, Council and national parliaments o KPI 4 – Number of special reports (and similar products) published (number of special reports (and similar products)) o KPI 5 – Our presence in the media (court's media presence) 50
51 Number of Special Reports and Similar Products in 2018 We monitor the number and timing of the reports published throughout the year.
This provides an indication of the accuracy of our planning.
Of the 47 reports planned for 2018, 44 were published: 35 special reports, six thematic papers, two landscape analyses, and a quick analysis.
In addition to the selected reviews provided for in our work programme, we delivered ten opinions.
Special reports and similar products 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 44 30 2017 2018 Our appearances in the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and in national parliaments Most of our audit reports will be presented to the relevant committee of the European Parliament and the Council of the EU.
In addition, most of the Court's members present our annual reports to the national parliament of their respective Member States.
In 2018, representatives of the Court spoke to the European Parliament 133 times (2017: 91), to the Council 65 times (2017: 47) and to national parliaments 50 times (2017: 19).
This represents a significant increase compared to 2017.
Appearances of the Court in 2018: European Parliament, Council and national parliaments 52 European Parliament 91 Council of the EU 47 133 65 50 National Parliaments 19 2017 2018 Media presence Number of online articles and contributions in the social media almost tripled Since 2018, we have been in closer contact with the media and non-institutional stakeholders and are much more active in the social media.
We have published o 76 press releases in 23 EU languages (2017: 57) and o 20 press briefings in Brussels (2017: 16), including press briefings for the annual report, including briefings in the sector and in the Member States concerned.
We also received journalists from Brussels and the Member States, and offered industry stakeholders, NGOs and think tanks several briefings on selected reports.
53 Visits to Luxembourg by Member State journalists in November 2018 We follow the media coverage of our work and our institution, which can vary significantly depending on the topic and complexity of a report.
At the same time, we must take into account that external factors can strongly influence the media's interest in our publications.
If, for example, the date of the publication coincides with an important event or political development, public interest in the subject in question may increase significantly.
The total number of media reports, including social media, has almost tripled: while there were around 15,500 online articles and social media contributions in 2017, their number has increased to more than 44,000 in 2018.
Social media posts posted by the Court's official accounts regarding our publications were posted around 11 million times in 2018, almost 18 times more than in 2017.
Special reports are clearly our flagship product in terms of media coverage As far as communication and media coverage are concerned, the special reports have clearly become our flagship product. Twelve of the Court's 15 most successful publications in 2018 were special reports.
In that year there were more than 11,000 online articles on our special reports, which means that the number has increased by more than double the number compared to 2017.
On the other hand, the total number of online articles in 2013 amounted to 1,500 – the year we started to pursue media coverage.
Compared to 2017, there was also an increase of 60% of the average number of media reports per special report.
This means that our presence in the media has increased not only because of a higher number of reports, but also because of a greater interest in our publications.
Media coverage on annual reports, special reports, and the ECA in general 54 Online articles Social media Total Online articles Social media Total Online articles Social media Total Online articles Total Online articles Social media Total Total 6 297 0 10 000 20 000 30 000 40 000 960 207 952 2 425 1 912 2 632 4 762 9 159 1 535 The special report on the European high-speed rail network has made the greatest impact, with over 4 400 online articles and contributions in the social media 11 682 20 841 7752 11198 13 535 2018 18 152 21 287 29 350 2017 The majority of the media reports in 2018 covered our special reports on the European high-speed rail network, on the efficiency of the European Central Bank's management of crisis management for banks and on the facility for refugees in Turkey.
The court has five social media accounts: * This number indicates how many times our posts have been displayed.
Throughout the year, we have seen an exponential increase in our presence and our commitment to social media, in particular on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, which have become an indispensable part of our communication activities, enabling us to engage in direct communication with citizens.
The number of our followers and subscribers and the number of our impressions, which shows how often our posted posts have been displayed, have always increased.
55 followers/subscribers 2018 Increase on 2017 number of impressions* 7 674 31 % 3 419 137 10 080 23 % 256 268 4 800 83 % 9 590 234 869 27 % 117 800 1 134 149 % n.a.
The impact and perception of our work Our reports – useful and effective We evaluate the impact and perception of our work on the basis of assessments by the addressees.Another evaluation criterion is the follow-up measures taken on the basis of our recommendations to improve EU financial management.
At the beginning of 2018, we started to ask our stakeholders (from the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, from EU agencies, permanent representations of the Member States, Member States' public bodies, national SAIs, NGOs, science, the media, etc.) for feedback on the usefulness and likely impact of our reports.
These feedbacks concern selected special reports and analyses, as well as the Court's annual reports, and are collected by anonymous electronic surveys by all those who have previously received a copy of those reports.
This survey also enables stakeholders to provide qualitative feedback on reports and make general proposals on the Court's work.
Overall, 87% of respondents confirmed the usefulness of our reports for their work and 78% agreed with them.
56 Relevant reports 15 42 30 12 1 Probable impact of reports 0 % 10 % 20 % 30 % 40 % 50 % 60 % 70 % 90 % 100 % Very high High Medium Low Very low 7 30 41 18 4
Follow-up to our recommendations Most of our recommendations have been implemented Since 2018, we have been using a follow-up of our auditors as a basis for this indicator instead of the European Commission's management statement.
For 2018, we analysed the recommendations made in our 2014 special reports and the annual report of the same year.
This analysis shows that 74% of the recommendations we have made in our 2014 Annual Report and 94% of the recommendations have been fully, largely or partially implemented in our 2014 Special Reports.
Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the year of levy 57 Implementation of the Court's recommendations in the 2014 Annual Report 10 % 10 % 32% 32% 10 % Implementation of the Court's recommendations in 2014 following the audit of the accounts 6% 19% 17% 17% 58% Fully implemented Implementation of the Court's recommendations Implementation of the Court's recommendations Insufficient evidence Not applicable Not implemented
Our staff staff at the end of 2018 employed 834 temporary officials and staff at the European Court of Auditors.
The Court's establishment plan included 853 permanent and scheduled posts, including 541 in the examination chambers, including 112 posts in the members' cabinets.
Our staff's areas of activity: Examination services, translation, administration and services of the President 58 Examination services 541 Translation Administration President's services 135 Altogether 853 129 48 In addition, at the end of the year 76 contract staff and 15 seconded national experts were employed at the Court.
Recruitment of staff The staff of the Court have a broad academic and professional background.
With our recruitment policy, we follow the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and promote equal opportunities at all levels.
In 2018, the Court recruited 79 staff: 15 officials, 32 temporary staff, 22 contract staff and ten seconded national experts.
We also provided 60 university graduates with internships for periods of three to five months.
Age profile The age profile of the active staff on 31 December 2018 indicates that almost half of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
30 of the 64 directors and the Court's directors (47%) are 55 years of age or older.
Age profile 59 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0% -1% 2% 4% 骨1% 5% 10% 15% 25% 7% 12% 16% 18% 20% 23% 18% Note: Differences in totals are attributable to rounding.
Overall, we have achieved a balanced proportion of women and men among our employees; 45% of our auditors and boards of directors are women.
Ratio of men to women at responsibilities 60 34% 66% 55% 45% 62% 38% Assistants and Secretaries Auditors and Boards of Directors Management 0% 20 % 40 % 60 % Male 80 % 100 % Female We continue to advocate a balance between women and men at all levels of leadership.
In recent years, for example, we have succeeded in increasing the proportion of women in management positions in our audit chambers, which still amounted to 7% at the end of 2015, to almost 24% at the end of 2018.
Our policy of equal opportunities for the period 2018-2020 also concerns issues related to age and disability.
Managers by nationality and sex 61
Support for audit activities Professional further training further training: for example, we prepare our staff and the Court for the future In line with the recommendations published by the International Federation of Accountants, IFAC, we strive to provide on average 40 hours (five days) of professional training per year to each auditor.
In 2018, we were once again above this target with 6.9 training days per examiner.
We have continued to expand the range of training courses that we offer to employees both within and outside the examination area, and have helped examiners to obtain various certifications.
We continued our successful series of presentations held by internal or external experts on audit developments or other subjects relating to the work of our auditors.
We continued our "Performance Recognition Awards" program, which allows non-managerial employees to participate in specific external training courses.
Average number of training days per year 7.0 6.7 6.9 Objective ≥ 2 days 2016 2017 Per examiner 2018 4.0 2016 2.3 3.1 2017 2018 Objective ≥ 5 days Per non examiner 62 days
Successful cooperation with educational institutions We have signed a partnership agreement with the College of Europe (Bruges, Belgium) which provides for cooperation in a number of areas, including training, traineeships and the drafting of reports.
We have also concluded cooperation agreements with the European Institute for Public Administration and other organisations, which allow our staff to attend training, organised by these organisations.
We continued our cooperation with the University of Lorraine and further expanded our cooperation: we offered the postgraduate course "Audit of public organisations and policies" and the master course "Management of public organisations" (Management of public organisations). We also designed a new postgraduate program called "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit" (Fundamentals of statistics in the examination area).
Finally, auditors from other SAIs took part in our internal training, some of them sharing their experience in illustrating reports on the annual Court Training Day, in which more than 450 people participated.
Interactive public online courses We made our online business audit training available to the public and held two interactive seminars with a capacity of more than 150 participants from all over the world.
Translation The Court's Translation, Language Services and Publication Directorate translated and revised more than 251 000 pages in 2018, an increase of more than 18% compared to 2017.
This increase also led to a higher outsourcing rate.
In addition, all our translation teams are now using harmonised working methods.
Translators have been increasingly involved in the Court's audit activities by providing linguistic support during audit visits and in the preparation of most reports.
As a result, we managed to create further synergies with our auditors.
The team responsible for publication is now an integral part of the Directorate.
Review of originals for translation and finally for publication, integrated into a single, optimized workflow.
Information, Work Environment and Innovation Our Information, Work Environment and Innovation Directorate supports our employees in the effective and efficient use of information technologies, through the promotion of innovation and knowledge management.
Information Management We have launched a new initiative called tECAway, which gives our employees access to the network on the go.
This will allow them to access the Court's digital resources and services on all devices, anywhere and at any time.
The Court has created a new harmonised document management system and has created multi-function printing, photocopiering and scanning equipment.
We expect these devices to have a positive impact on information security and paper consumption.
We have also introduced a new governance model on cybersecurity and are currently working on implementing the cybersecurity plan.
All IT projects and IT solutions have taken due account of the maintenance of business operations, ensuring the unrestricted availability of critical systems.
Innovation We have also set up the ECAB, an interdisciplinary innovation laboratory, whose focus is on the digitalisation of the audit area through the use of data and technology.
ECAB tests the use of technologies such as artificial intelligence, natural language processing and text mining for real test tasks.
This support has already benefited from several tasks and publications.
We also carried out a pilot project on the application of blockchain technologies for the notarial certification of audit evidence and publications.
The resulting prototype, the ECA registry, was selected by the European Blockchain Partnership, set up by EU Member States and the Commission, as part of the European Blockchain Services Infrastructure, which will be developed as of 2019.
Knowledge Management In July 2018, our first annual annual summer course in the field of public financial control took place, which we organised together with the University of Pisa and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).
45 people from SAIs, EU institutions and universities took part in the summer course, whose focus was on data analysis for exams.
We also held a conference on blockchain, where we explored the possibilities offered by this technology and its practical applications for controlling EU expenditure.
This conference was mainly aimed at participants from other EU institutions.
Building The yard currently has three buildings ("K1, "K2" and "K3") which form a single integrated technical unit.
In addition, the Hof also offers office space for its Centre for the Recovery of Data in Luxembourg.
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees, with meeting rooms, a conference room with interpreting booths, video conference rooms, a cafeteria and a basic kitchen area.
A detailed study of this project will be carried out in 2019 and work is expected to begin at the end of this year.
As approved by the European Parliament and the Council in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining resources of the K3 construction project, which was completed a few years ago, to finance this modernisation.
K3 The K3 building was opened in 2012.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM), the K3 building, was rated "very good" based on the world's leading methodology for assessing and certifying the sustainability of buildings.
A new security control centre and an external accreditation and access control centre for employees and visitors was put into operation in September 2018.
The main EurH building "K1" and the new safety control centre on Rue Alcide De Gasperi, Luxembourg Environmental Management As an institution of the European Union, it is our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all activities.
We are therefore endeavouring to reduce the environmental impact of the farm steadily.
We now successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015.
As part of our goal of systematically reducing our CO2 emissions, we regularly examine the greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities.
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 amounted to a total of 10 451 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), which represents a reduction of 3% compared to 2016.
2018 was the fourth consecutive year for which the Court examined its carbon footprint.
67 Court accounts Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union, the budget of which falls within the scope of administrative expenditure.
In 2018, the Court's budget amounted to around 146 million euros.
This represents less than 0.1% of total EU expenditure and about 1.5% of total EU administrative expenditure.
The share of the 2018 budget appropriations used was 96%.
Implementation of the budget 2018 68 BU BUDG BUDGFF 2018 Final appropriations Commitments Appropriations used Use of appropriations in % Payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand EUR) 10 – Members of the institution 12 265 11 245 92 % 11 186 12 – Officials and temporary staff 105 044 102 543 98 % 543 98 % 102 528 14 – Other staff and external staff 6 335 5 914 93 % 5 814 93 % 5 825 162 – Missions 3 450 3 050 88 % 2 050 88 % 2 537 161 + 163 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff 2 990 of the institution 2 883 96% 96% 96% % 2 2 221 Subtotal Title 1 130 0808 8 707 99% 99% 4 714 212 % staff and external staff 6 335 5 914 914 914 993 % 5 81208 80707 99% 4 714 212 + 214 + 216 + 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 1 129 1 066 966 94 % 749 749 23 23 – Running expenditure for the operation of operation 14 14 557 357 757 8 72 53 708 7 7 7 Commitment 7 7 714 666 6 of 8 82 207 7 7 8 7 14 Other 7 Other 5 16 Other 4 6 of Implementation of 708 Meetings of Meetings of the 2018 6 Meetings of 2018 expenditure expenditure budget 2018 expenditure 2018 expenditure expenditure 2018 2018 budget of the expenditure expenditure 2018 budget 2018 68 68 68 68 68 budget 2018 68 68 6 68 budget 68 budget Appropriations 2018 68 68 68 68 appropriations 2018 68 expenditure used 2018 68 of expenditure 6 6 budget budget 2018 68 12 budget budget appropriations 68 appropriations 2018 68 revenue 2018 budget expenditure expenditure expenditure 7 budget 6 08 68 budget for 2018 budget for 2018 year 2018 68 budget budget 08 of expenditure 2018 2018 2018 2018 expenditure 2018 68 budget budget 2018 year 2018 2018 year 2018 year 2018 2018 2018 year 2018 2018 expenditure expenditure 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 year 2018 budget Final 2018 year 2018 Final year 2018 Final revenue 2018 2018 Final appropriations budget 2018 2018 2018 Final appropriations appropriations 2018 Final budget Commitment appropriations Final appropriations 8 6 2018 2018 Final in 2018 Final 8 2018 8 year 2018 Final appropriations Commitment 9 budget Commitment Final appropriations appropriations Commitment Final appropriations appropriations commitment commitment Final appropriations commitment Commitment Final appropriations appropriations Commitment Final % % % appropriations Commitment Commitments appropriations commitment Final appropriations commitment Commitment Commitment Appropriations appropriations Appropriations appropriations Appropriations commitment Commitment
Budget 2019 In the 2019 budget, budget appropriations increased by 0.6% on 2018.
69 BUDGET 2019 2018 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 – Members of the institution 11 474 12 515 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 107 666 106 600 14 – Other staff and external staff 6 381 5 745 162 – Missions 3 450 3 450 161 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 3 098 2 990 Subtotal Title 1 132 069 131 300 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 20 – Buildings 2 984 2 930 210 – Computer and telecommunications 7 605 7 492 212 + 214 + 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 998 1 157 23 – Current operating expenditure 548 555 25 – Meetings and conferences 700 706 27 – Information and publications 1 986 1 876 Subtotal Title 2 14 821 14 716 European Court of Auditors total 146 890 146 016
Internal and external audit Internal audit The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk management issues.
It provides independent and objective assurance and provides advisory services designed to increase and improve the value added of the Court's activities.
In addition, that department shall report to the Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee shall regularly monitor progress on the various tasks set out in the annual work programme of the Internal Audit Service and shall ensure the independence of the Service.
In 2018, she conducted an audit of the Court's cybersecurity systems and the construction of its perimeter protection.
The department also examined the implementation of the Court's risk management policy and the statements made annually by the authorising officers by delegation.
It also monitored the implementation of its previous recommendations to ensure that the agreed action plans had taken shape.
In 2018, the audit carried out by the service did not reveal any deficiencies which, because of their nature or extent, seriously jeopardise the reliability of the internal control systems as a whole; these control systems had been introduced by the authorising officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations.
We report annually to the European Parliament and to the Council on the results of the internal audit work.
External control Our financial statements are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same transparency and accountability principles to itself as to the bodies it is examining.
The auditor's report — PricewaterhouseCoopers Sàrl. — on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2017 was published on 17 May 2018. 70
The Court's annual accounts: "In our opinion, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the European Court of Auditors' financial and financial position (hereinafter referred to as "the Court") as at 31 December 2017 and of the results of its operations, its cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ending that date in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 966, 31.10.2012, p.
1), and its retrospective amendments, hereinafter referred to as "the Financial Regulation", and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 laying down detailed rules for the application of the Financial Regulation and its retrospective amendments.';
As regards the use of resources and the control procedures of the Court: "In our work described in this report, we have not encountered facts, from which we would have to conclude that in all essential respects and in the light of the above assessment criteria, the funds allocated to the Court have not been used for the intended purposes and that the established control procedures do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
Discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is also subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2018, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2016.
As in every year, we have carefully analysed the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility, taken the appropriate measures and reported our follow-up to the European Parliament in detail.
On 26 March 2019, the European Parliament granted discharge to our Secretary-General for the financial year 2017.
This means that our financial statements for 2017 were finally approved.
Peer Reviews Peer Reviews mean independent and transparent expert assessments of the capabilities of a given SAIs, which are carried out by other SAIs.
Each SAI participating in the peer review shall continue to respect the independence of the other SAI during the implementation.
We asked the SAIs of Estonia (Leading SAIs), Denmark, the Netherlands, and the United States of America in 2018 to assess whether the Court is in the process of achieving its strategic objectives at the mid-term of the 2018-2020 period and whether it is likely that the measures we have implemented so far to implement the strategy will have the desired effect.
The peer review report is expected to be published in early 2019.
At the same time, we began the preparation of the peer review of the SAIs of Lithuania, together with the SAIs of Poland and the United Kingdom.
The main objective of this expert assessment will be to assess whether the assessment approach of the SAIs of Lithuania complies with international standards.
In addition, we commissioned an external and independent evaluation of the Court's ethical framework during the year.
This peer review is carried out by the audit offices of Croatia and Poland.
The audit report is expected to be available in 2019. 72
Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation I, the undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, o that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable certainty that o the funds provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes provided and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, o the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the proper handling of fraud or suspected fraud, o the costs and benefits of the controls are proportionate.
Done at Luxembourg, 28 March 2019 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 73
Annex - Publications in 2018: Special reports, annual reports, opinions and analytical products Special reports o Special report No 01/2018: Joint assistance in support of projects in European regions (JASPERS) - Time for better orientation o Special report No 02/2018: The efficiency of the ECB's management in the area of crisis management for banks o Special report No 03/2018: Examination of the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure (MIP) o Special report No 04/2018: EU assistance for Myanmar/Burma o Special report No 05/2018: Renewable energy for sustainable rural development: significant but largely unused synergy potential o Special report No 06/2018: Free movement of workers – the basic freedom is guaranteed, but a better target orientation of EU funds would encourage the mobility of workers o Special report No 07/2018: EU's pre-accession assistance for Turkey: limited results to date o Special report No 08/2018: EU support for productive investment in enterprises – greater attention is required o Special report No 09/2018: Common target orientation for the area of freedom of movement o Special report No 09/2018: Common target for the area of freedom of intervention in the context of the EU area of freedom of establishment and freedom of establishment of assistance in the management of intervention for the EU
The annual report of the annual report of the Court of Auditors of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the annual report on the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the report on the implementation of the multiannual report on the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the implementation of the annual report on the annual report on the implementation of the multiannual financial report on the financial year on the financial year on the financial year on the financial year on the financial year on the financial year on the financial on the financial year on the financial on the financial on the financial year on the financial year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the year on the year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial year on the financial on the financial on the annual on the financial year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the year on the financial on the financial year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the year on the financial on the year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the year on the financial on the financial year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the financial on the year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the on the financial on the financial on the on the financial on the financial on the year on the year on the financial on the financial on the financial on the year on the financial on the
CURRENCY NOTICE © European Union, 2019.
Reproduction is permitted with reference to the source.
The permission to use or reproduce the following images must be obtained directly from the copyright holders: p. 30, © Croix-Rouge française (French Red Cross).
© European Medicines Agency (European Medicines Agency) Reproduction of the following images is authorised by the copyright holder, the source and the names of the photographers and architects: S. 1, 5, 12, 13, 14, 24, 28, 38, 40, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 49, 53, © EU / European Court of Auditors, p. 9, © EU / European Court of Auditors, p. 20, from left to right, from top to bottom: © EU / European Parliament © EU, 2005 / Audiovisual service of the European Commission / Alain Schroeder © EU, 2010 / Carlos Juan © EU, 2008 / European Parliament © EU, 2013 / AFP / Ronny Hartmann © EU, 2016 / Yasin Akgul © EU, 2017 / Mauro Bottaro © EU, 2017 / Frank Molter © EU, 2017 / Mauro Bottaro © EU, 2008 / European Parliament S. 23, © EU / Eurostat – GISCO, 02/2018, source data: © EuroGeograph, © EU, 02, and EU, 2008 / © EuroGeograph S.
THE EU CONTACT A visit The European Union has hundreds of "Europe Direct" information offices.
Contact Europe Direct through the freephone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (but some telephone service providers charge fees), - via the standard telephone number: +32 22999696 or - via e-mail: http://europa.eu/contact INFORMATION ON THE EU On the Internet On the Europa portal you can find information about the European Union in all official languages: http://europa.eu EU publications You can download or order EU publications, in part free of charge: http://publications.europa.eu/eubookshop.
If you would like to receive several copies of a free publication, please contact Europe Direct or the information office nearby (see http://europa.eu/contact).
For information on EU law, including all EU legislation since 1951 in all official languages, please refer to EUR-Lex at http://eur-lex.europa.eu EU open data via its Open Data Portal (http://data.europa.eu/euodp).
ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 QJ-AA-19-001-EN-C
EN Our Activities in 2019 Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2020 Print ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-4585-2 HTML ISBN978-92-847-4572-2 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/6146 doi:10.2865/105562 doi:10.2865/263527 QJ-AA-20-001-EN-C QJ-AA-20-001-EN-N QJ-AA-20-001-EN-Q
Our Activities in 2019 Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors
2 The College of Members of the European Court of Auditors in January 2020.
Content President's Preface 6 2019 at a glance 7 Our Activities 9 Strategy 9 Auditing the economy and regularity of EU action 10 Work programme 11 Audit work on the ground 12 Audit reports, analyses and opinions 15 Cross-cutting topics 32 Institutional relations 34 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCB) 39 Management 43 Members 43 Audit chambers and committees 45 Performance measurement 47 Our staff 54 Personnel assignment 54 Personnel recruitment 54 Age profile 55 Equal opportunities 55 3
4 Support for audit activities 57 Professional training 57 Translation 59 Information technology, working environment and innovation 59 Building 61 Further increase of our security measures 63 Environmental management 64 Court accountability 65 Financial information 65 Internal and external audit 67 Statement by the authorising officer by delegation 70
European Court of Auditors 5 Who we are o external auditors of the European Union; o established in 1975 by the Treaty of Brussels; taking up office in October 1977; since the Maastricht Treaty of 1993 full-fledged EU institution; o head office in Luxembourg; o one member per EU Member State appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament; o some 900 employees of all EU nationalities.
Our role o We ensure that the EU ensures proper accounting, that its financial rules are applied correctly and that its policies and programmes achieve its objectives and that the financial resources are used optimally. o We contribute to the improvement of the EU's financial management and to the promotion of accountability and transparency. o We warn of risks, provide audit certainty, point to weaknesses and successes, and provide guidance to policy-makers and legislators of the Union. o We make our comments and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council, national governments and parliaments and the general public. Foreword of the President Dear Reader, Dear Readers!
The year 2019 was marked by many changes for the Union: elections for the European Parliament took place and a new European Commission took office.
The strategic priorities have been redefined and important packages of action have been launched, such as the "European Green Deal" or the "European Digital Future" (beginning of 2020).
Towards the end of the year it became clear that we would now be a Union of 27 Member States.
At the same time, the EU is at an important crossroads in terms of its finances.
We are about to conclude the negotiations on the next Multiannual Financial Framework, the outcome of which will be decisive for the Union's financing capacity over the next seven years.
All EU institutions must now build on the efforts made so far to further improve the Union's financial management and to ensure that the EU delivers results.
As an external auditor, we offer an impartial assessment of the Union's policies and programmes and the quality of EU financial management within and outside the Union.
We are looking at whether EU expenditure is in line with the rules and whether the Union's policies and programmes ensure the best possible use of resources.
This activity report provides an overview of our work in 2019, in which we published a wide range of up-to-date special reports, analyses and opinions.
You will also find information about our employees, our management and our finances.
We hope that this information will be useful to you.
We are publishing our Annual Activity Report this year at a time when public health in the EU and its Member States is facing an unprecedented challenge due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Our institution has reacted rapidly to this situation in accordance with the health and safety instructions issued by the Luxembourg Government.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their good work and for their willingness to adapt flexibly to the current situation.
We must now stand together and do everything we can to continue to fulfil our role as external auditors of the EU in these difficult times.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne President 6
7 2019 at a glance
8 Our Activities Strategy In order to continue to shape developments in the field of public financial control in a pioneering way, we rely on multiannual strategies to make long-term choices for our audit work and to advance organisational change initiatives with a view to continuous improvements.
At the end of 2019, we had completed the second year of our current strategy for 2018-2020.
In this three-year period, we have set ourselves the following strategic objectives: improving the added value of the Statement of Assurance; giving a stronger focus to the performance aspects of EU measures; and providing clear statements to our audience.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In order to implement our strategy in practice, we have agreed an action plan covering these objectives.
Over the last two years, we have made good progress in the implementation of our strategic objectives.
A number of initiatives and projects have been launched in all of the areas targeted, which have sometimes even gone beyond the objectives of the Action Plan, in particular: o a pilot phase of the assessment approach to the assessment of the Statement of Assurance, which has led to useful findings; o a significant increase in the number of economic reviews and analytical products and a wider range of issues, covering both expenditure and regulation in the EU; o better the maintenance of contacts with the European Parliament and greater visibility in traditional and social media.
During the year, a group of four Supreme Audit Institutions (Estonia, the Netherlands, Denmark and the United States) conducted a peer review of our strategy.
Our peers' report was published in March 2020, just in time to provide valuable impetus for our next strategy starting in 2021.
Good progress in implementing our strategy 9
Auditing the effectiveness and regularity of EU policies Auditing the performance of EU policies and programmes and the effectiveness of the audit and the audit of compliance.
The focus is on issues that reflect relevant issues for the EU, such as the sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, the challenges of migration and global development, the internal market and the banking union, and ensuring that the European Union is accountable and accountable.
These audits will help the EU to better achieve its policy objectives.
Our audits of the accounts and our compliance audits lead to our statement of reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
We may also carry out selected compliance audits to examine the budgetary and financial management of the Union or to assess whether the management and control systems established to collect and use EU funds comply with the applicable EU and national rules.
Our audits are in line with internationally recognised auditing principles for the public sector. 10
Work Programme Strategic Perspectives In 2019, we continued to embed the Strategic Perspective in our audit work in order to better address the key future challenges for the EU through a forward-looking approach.
To this end we have set up an Advisory Committee on Strategy and Perspectives.
One of the current tasks of this Committee, composed of five members, is to monitor the preparation of the post-2020 strategy.
Audit priorities related to issues relevant to the future of the EU Our work programme was published in October 2019, presenting in detail our audit priorities for the years ahead and the 41 reports and analyses, which are due to be published for 2020.
With our review plans for 2020 and beyond, we will continue to provide the citizens of the Union and policy-makers with independent reports on issues relevant to the future of the EU.
We are preparing the work programme for our audits in an independent way, but not completely isolated from our environment.
It is therefore of the utmost importance for us to work with our institutional stakeholders, in particular the European Parliament.
As usual, at the beginning of 2019, we asked all parliamentary committees to propose possible audit topics for our work programme. 11
Examination work on site The majority of our examination work takes place on our premises in Luxembourg.
Our auditors also carry out numerous audit visits to the European Commission – our main audited body – and also to the other EU institutions, the EU agencies and bodies, the national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, the EU delegations in third countries and the international organisations to which EU funds are directed.
We also carry out on-the-spot checks on recipients of EU funds both inside and outside the EU.
These audits enable us to track the audit trail and obtain direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the management of Union policies and programmes and the collection or disbursement of EU funds, and also from the beneficiaries of such funds.
In line with the objective set out in the EU Financial Regulation, we aim to complete our selected audits within 13 months. 12
3 605 days of on-site examination work – inside and outside the EU Our examination teams usually consist of two to three examiners, and the duration of an inspection visit may be a few days, but also several weeks.
Within the EU, our on-the-spot audits are generally coordinated with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States concerned.
13 The frequency and intensity of our audit work in the individual Member States and beneficiary countries depends on the type of audit we carry out.
In 2019, our auditors spent 3,605 days (2018: 3,671 days) with on-the-spot audits, both in the Member States and outside the EU.
Furthermore, our auditors spent 2,504 days (2018: 2,723 days) with EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralised agencies and agencies throughout the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations and the OECD, as well as with audit firms.
To interact with our audited bodies, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies, such as secure exchange of data and documents. 14
Audit reports, analyses and opinions Our audit reports, analyses and opinions form an important link in the EU's accountability chain.
They help the European Parliament and the Council to monitor and verify the achievement of the EU's policy objectives, and to hold the bodies responsible for the EU's financial management accountable, in particular in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
Special reports and analytical products In line with our strategy for 2018-2020, we have increasingly focused on assessing the performance of EU measures in recent years.
In 2019, we published 36 special reports and analyses addressing many of the challenges facing the Union in various EU spending areas, such as food safety, renewable energy, e-commerce, border controls, budgetary governance, and ethics frameworks in selected EU institutions, to name just a few. 15
16 In our special reports, we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved effectively and economically, and whether the EU policies have created added value, i.e. whether they have achieved more than could be achieved by action at national level alone.
We also make recommendations on financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste, or achieving better policy objectives.
Our analyses are intended to provide introductory descriptions and analytical considerations, often from a cross-sectional perspective and on the basis of previous tests or other publicly available information.
They can also be used to present our analysis of areas or issues that have not yet been examined, or to compile facts on specific issues or problems.
In contrast to examinations, they do not address, nor do they provide, any assurance of reliability.
17 Sustainable use of natural resources Analysis No. 01/2019: The EU's reaction to the "diesel scandal" In 2015, the deviations in diesel engines between the test bench and the emission levels of the road were detected.
Studies have shown that so-called " switch-off devices" have been used that caused lower emissions in official tests than in normal driving operations.
The type-approval authorities of some Member States reacted to the emissions scandal by re-testing diesel cars.
These tests showed that emissions from road transport from almost all light diesel commercial vehicles from the Euro 5 and Euro 6 emission classes exceeded the permissible NOx limits significantly, in some cases by more than 10 times.
We looked at the measures taken by both the EU and the Member States in response to the "diesel scandal".
We also included in our consideration the changes made in the exhaust emission measurement system after September 2015.
We noted that many legal changes to the EU system of vehicle type-approvals and emission tests were adopted to speed up the process.
The Commission is now empowered to review the work of the national type-approval authorities and to have vehicles tested and to revoke or suspend type-approvals.
Third parties concerned can now carry out emission tests.
The Commission also initiated infringement proceedings against certain Member States.
We also noted that in several Member States there has been an increase in willingness to restrict motor vehicle traffic in order to improve air quality, and in several European cities low-emission zones where car traffic is restricted or prohibited.
We presented our work results in the form of an analysis, as the changes made to the legislation will not have a measurable impact in the near future.
Our analyses do not contain any recommendations.
18 Investment for cohesion, growth and integration Special Report No 08/2019: Wind and solar energy for electricity generation: substantial efforts are needed to achieve the EU objectives Electricity can be generated either from non-renewable energy sources such as fossil fuels, non-usable waste and nuclear fuels in conventional reactors, or from renewable energy sources such as hydropower, wind and solar energy, biomass, etc.
Renewable energies also serve the heat and cooling production and the extraction of fuels for the transport sector.
Currently, 79% of the EU's total greenhouse gas emissions are due to the use of fossil fuels to generate energy.
A higher share of renewable energy in electricity generation will contribute to achieving the EU's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Member States shall determine how best to use their energy resources and how to structure their energy supply.
The EU can support Member States' action through additional funds for investment in renewable energy projects.
We assessed the progress made by the EU and the Member States towards the targets set for the share of renewable energies in order to achieve the overall EU target of 20% by 2020 and 32% by 2030.
In Germany, Greece, Spain and Poland, we checked on the spot whether the promotion of electricity generation from wind energy and photovoltaics was effective.
We noted that significant progress had been made in terms of the share of renewable energy in the energy mix from 2005, but this trend slowed down after 2014.
The share of renewable energy in electricity generation in the EU has increased from around 15% (in 2015) to just under 31% (in 2017) and has thus doubled.
Wind and solar energy were the technologies that made the biggest contribution to this increase.
However, achieving the targets for around half of the Member States will be a major challenge.
We recommended that the Commission encourage the Member States to support the further development of the Commission through the organisation of auctions for the allocation of additional renewable energy capacity, the promotion of increased citizen participation, the simplification of the administrative procedures and the elimination of network deficiencies.
We also recommended that the Commission review the legal requirements for the Member States in order to improve the up-to-dateness of the statistical data.
19 External policies, security and justice Special Report No 24/2019: Asylum, resettlement and return of migrants: time for stronger measures to eliminate disparities between objectives and results In 2015, the European Union experienced an unprecedented influx of migrants, followed by an increase in asylum applications.
In recent years, immigration figures have fallen back to pre-crisis levels.
We conducted interviews with staff at the European Commission, the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (commonly referred to as "Frontex").
Audit visits to national authorities and to international organisations and non-governmental organisations carrying out EU-funded projects and 20 EU support actions have been carried out in Greece and Italy.
Both Member States are particularly affected by these migratory flows.
We assessed whether the objectives of EU-funded support were achieved and whether asylum and return procedures were implemented effectively and expeditiously.
We also examined whether the targets and targets of the temporary emergency relocation arrangements have been achieved.
We found that the quotas in the hotspots had improved considerably in the registrations and fingerprints.
Nevertheless, a large number of migrants continue to move to other EU Member States, where they apply for asylum without their fingerprints being stored in the Eurodac database.
In both Member States, the implementation of the asylum procedures continues to be characterised by long processing times and bottlenecks.
A large proportion of the applicants were actually relocated (80% in Greece and 89% in Italy).
However, the relocation process in the countries receiving migrants has not been monitored by the Commission since February 2018.
As in the other EU countries, the return rates from Greece and Italy are low.
We recommended that the next Commission should take appropriate measures to improve the management of emergency aid.
In addition, the Commission should make use of the past experience in the development of future voluntary relocation mechanisms.
Finally, EASO support for asylum procedures should be improved and Frontex support for return operations adjusted.
20 Market regulation and competitive economy Special Report No 10/2019: EU-wide stress tests for banks: as much information about banks as ever, but stronger coordination and risk focus is needed The EU-wide stress test is designed to assess the potential effects that a common shock to the financial situation and the viability of large European banks could have.
It is the task of the European Banking Authority (EBA), in collaboration with the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) to initiate and coordinate the implementation of Union-wide banking stress tests.
Stress tests have been carried out in the EU since 2011, in the case of the bottom-up approach of all, the banks providing the results of the shock scenario based on the methodology approved by the EBA.
We evaluated the implementation of the EU-wide banking stress test under the mandate of the EBA.
We found that at the beginning of the procedure the EBA did not specify the risks or the degree of severity it considered relevant for the stress test procedure.
The ESRB, which developed the stress scenario, received a substantial input from the ECB as well as from the national central banks and authorities.
As a result, EBA lacked control over key phases of the procedure.
In the United States, supervisors rely on a top-down approach, giving them a much greater degree of control over the results achieved by banks.
Conversely, the role of EBA in the EU is limited to the introduction of stress tests, the provision of methodology, and the extensive coordination of stress tests.
The EBA's stress test assessed the vulnerability of the system and banks to a downturn rather than a severe financial shock affecting the system.
Although the EBA pursued the objective of broad coverage, certain risky banks were excluded from the stress test.
The bottom-up approach of EBA led to a limited reliability and comparability of the results achieved by the banks.
We recommended that EBA should strengthen its control over the stress testing process and develop a top-down approach that complements the current bottom-up approach.
In order to fulfil its purpose of assessing resilience to adverse market developments, future stress tests should, moreover, take due account of the risks posed by the EU financial system, ensure a minimum level of stress and provide clear statements on the resilience of banks.
Finally, the choice of banks for the stress test should be carried out not only according to size, but also according to risk.
21 Financing and administration of the Union Special Report No 14/2019: "Your opinion counts!"
While the Commission's public consultations involve citizens, there is a lack of public relations, the aim of "better regulation" is to ensure that policy decisions are prepared openly and transparently, that they are based on the best facts available and that citizens and other stakeholders, such as civil society organisations and representative associations, are supported, that they are fully involved.
The Commission is obliged to consult citizens and representative associations in all areas of Union action.
The guidelines for better regulation define stakeholder consultation, with citizens also ranking as "interest-makers".
Consultations with stakeholders, in particular in the context of public consultations, will seek information and opinions from citizens and other stakeholders when the Commission prepares a policy initiative or evaluates ongoing interventions.
The Commission carries out on average more than 100 public consultations per year.
We assessed whether the Commission's public consultations have effectively contributed to reaching out to the citizens and stakeholders and to making use of their contributions.
We examined the structure of the Commission framework, the way in which the Commission has prepared and carried out a selection of public consultations, and the way in which it has provided information on the consultation activities, and how it has used the consultation work.
We reviewed a sample of 26 Commission public consultations carried out by five Directorates-General between 2016 and 2018 and carried out an opinion poll to ascertain how satisfied the participants in public consultations were in fact.
We noted that the Commission framework for public consultation has a high standard.
Moreover, the Commission's overall public consultation sample was positive and the participants' perception of the sample was generally satisfactory.
Inadequacies have been identified in public relations and feedback. For example, the whole range of communication channels has not always been used, clear criteria have been missing for justifying why a questionnaire was not available in all EU official languages and some questionnaires have been long and complex.
We recommended that public advertising for the consultation should be made to a greater extent and more targeted to improve visibility and to allow more people to participate.
We also encouraged the Commission to report better on the follow-up to the public consultation.
Finally, there is potential for improvement in citizens' participation in the process of launching legislative proposals in the context of the European Citizens' Initiative.
Audit previews Audit previews provide information on ongoing audit tasks (in the area of the audit).
They are based on the preparatory work carried out before the start of an audit and are intended to serve as a source of information to all those interested in certain policy areas and/or programmes subject to an ongoing audit.
In 2019 we published 18 previews (2018: 12).
Annual reports and special annual reports The annual reports essentially contain the results of our Statement of Assurance on the European Union budget and on the European Development Funds (EDF).
The special annual reports contain the results of our annual audit of the accounts of the agencies, decentralised bodies and Joint Undertakings of the EU and the European Schools.
We also publish a report on contingent liabilities resulting from the tasks of the Single Resolution Committee (SRB). 22
Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2018 Every year, we review EU revenue and expenditure in order to assess whether the annual accounts are reliable and whether the underlying income and expenditure transactions are in line with the relevant EU and Member State legislation.
In addition, we provide specific assessments of all key areas of the EU budget, based on the (partial) headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for the period 2014-2020.
Furthermore, we analyse why and where errors have occurred, make recommendations for improvements, and examine whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been put into practice.
Finally, we provide information on budgetary and financial management and performance-related information.
This extensive work forms the basis for our Statement of Assurance, which we must submit to the European Parliament and to the Council in accordance with our mandate set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
EU general budget: full audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and revenue; limited audit opinion on expenditure In 2018, EU expenditure amounted to EUR 156.7 billion; this corresponds to 2.2% of total expenditure of the general government of the EU Member States and 1% of the gross national income of the Union.
Our auditors examined a sample of 728 payments made to beneficiaries from a population of around 120 billion euros to be examined, covering all areas of expenditure in the EU budget.
This means that we have assessed various cases where EU funds have been used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries.
For the financial year 2018, we gave a full audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the revenues of the EU.
Furthermore, for the third year in a row, we were able to present a limited audit opinion on EU expenditure. 23
About half of the expenditure audited has no significant error rate As in previous years, we found that the errors in EU expenditure were not complete and that the payments were lawful and proper, except for the high-risk expenditure (mainly the complex expenditures for which the expenditures were subject to reimbursement and were subject to complex rules).
24 Overall, the Commission and the Member States were able to maintain the progress recorded in the two previous years with an error rate of 2.6% ( budget year 2017: 2.4%; financial year 2016: 3.1%).
We see this as an encouraging sign.
Mistakes – what does that mean?
An error or irregular payment is the amount of the funds that should not have been paid from the EU budget because they have not been used in accordance with EU or national rules and therefore do not comply with the objectives pursued by the Council and Parliament in accordance with the relevant EU legislation or with specific national rules in the Member States.
We estimate the error rate using statistical methods, based on quantifiable (i.e. monetaryly measurable) errors that we have identified by examining a sample of operations within the total audited population of expenditure.
The most error-prone MFF heading: Economic, social and territorial cohesion The most error-prone MFF heading, followed by "Natural resources" and "Competitiveness for growth and employment" was the area of "Economic, social and territorial cohesion" in the 2018 financial year. 25
Annual report on the European Development Funds EDF: full audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and revenues; limited audit opinion on expenditure 26 The European Development Funds (EDF) are the EU's main instruments of assistance in the context of development cooperation.
The EDF aims at overcoming poverty and promoting sustainable development and the integration of the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the overseas countries and territories into the world economy.
The EDFs are financed by the Member States of the Union and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank (EIB).
As in previous years, we gave an unqualified audit opinion for the financial year 2018 on the reliability of the EDF accounts and on revenue and on a limited audit opinion on EDF expenditure.
Special annual reports on EU agencies and Joint Undertakings EU agencies are separate bodies with their own legal personality set up to carry out specific technical and scientific tasks and administrative tasks and thus contribute to shaping and implementing the policies of the EU institutions.
There are 43 agencies in total.
Joint Undertakings are EU public-private partnerships with industry, research groups and Member States, which play an important role in the implementation of certain aspects of EU research policy.
The European Commission is the public sector member of the Joint Undertaking and represents the EU.
A total of eight Joint Undertakings exist.
27 Note: The United Kingdom quit the European Union on 31 January 2020.
Full audit opinion for all agencies except one; full audit opinion for all Joint Undertakings Overall, all agencies (excluding the SRB) received a total budget of EUR 4.2 billion in the 2018 financial year, 20 % more than in 2017 (3.5 billion), representing approximately 2.9% of the total budget for 2018 (2017: 2.7%).
Overall, our audit of the accounts of the agencies for the financial year 2018 confirmed the positive results in the previous years.
We gave full audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts, the revenue and the accounts of the agencies, except for EASO, which has been given a limited audit opinion on the payments.
We also gave all the Joint Undertakings full audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts, the revenue and the expenditure.
Parliament's discharge procedure kicks off The publication of our annual reports is at the beginning of the discharge procedure, during which the European Parliament – at the Council's recommendation – decides whether the Commission and other bodies have managed the EU budget satisfactorily.
In October 2019, we presented our annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the EDF to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, and subsequently also to the plenary of the European Parliament, the Council ("Economy and Finance") and the parliaments and national authorities of 21 Member States.
28 Other annual reports: contingency liabilities and European Schools We are obliged to report annually on all contingent liabilities incurred by the Single Resolution Committee, the Council and the Commission in connection with the performance of their tasks in the field of bank resolution.
In our 2018 report, we concluded that the Committee has improved the presentation of its financial statements, but that better reporting of contingent liabilities at the national level is needed.
We also publish an annual report on the annual accounts of the European Schools.
Our audit of the annual accounts for 2018 resulted in a significant error rate for one of the 13 European schools.
On the road to digital testing Digitisation is about harnessing the potential of technologies to provide more and better information for the accountability process.
Digital change is also of great importance for our audit work and our organisation.
We have set up a five-member Digitalisation Steering Committee to manage this transition process in the coming years.
As the first important initiative in the audit area, we launched a pilot in 2019 to automate the audit of the accounting of the executive agencies.
In this pilot experiment we will use traditional and digital instruments at the same time. 29
Opinions Opinions: a contribution to better regulation One way to strengthen the Commission's approach to better regulation is to publish opinions on the Commission's proposals for new or amended legislation.
If these are legislative proposals with significant financial implications, the Court's opinions are required under EU law.
In addition, other institutions may request us to deliver opinions on specific issues.
Our opinions will be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council.
In 2019 we published three opinions: on the proposal on the European Union Intellectual Property Office, on a proposal for the financial regulation of the Single Resolution Committee (SRB) and on the proposal for the financial regulation of the Community Plant Variety Office.
Our comments on the new MFF at the beginning of 2019 were also published in the summary of the EAFRH's comments on the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) 2021-2027.
The focus of this summary was on the proposed procedure for setting expenditure priorities for the EU, the flexibility of the EU budget, the focus on performance and administrative simplification, and the accountability and audit arrangements.
The main basis for this analysis was a number of comments we made during 2018 on the Commission's proposals, as well as our recent thematic papers and other reports on the EU's finances.
Balanced number of publications throughout the year We have reached a relatively balanced number of publications throughout the year with a peak in October when we published our annual reports.
31 32 Fighting fraud against the EU's financial interests The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) is at the forefront of the fight against fraud at the expense of the EU's financial interests.
We have adopted detailed guidelines for our auditors on how to deal with the risk of fraud.
We shall forward to OLAF any suspicion of fraud or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the EU that arises in our audit work or is reported to us.
These cases will then be dealt with by OLAF, which will decide on possible investigations and, if necessary, cooperate with Member States' authorities.
In 2019, we also signed an administrative agreement laying down the operational rules for our cooperation with OLAF, including the coordination of training, workshops and staff exchanges.
10 cases of suspected fraud have been forwarded to OLAF We are the external auditor of the EU.
Our tests are not specifically designed to detect fraud.
Nevertheless, our auditors regularly identify a number of cases in which they suspect fraudulent activities.
In 2019, we sent OLAF 10 cases of suspected fraud (2018: nine cases), of which eight we encountered during our audits, as well as two cases which resulted from third party references.
Additional information on the nature of these suspected cases of fraud and on the resulting recoveries, as recommended by OLAF, can be found in our annual report on the general budget of the EU.
In 2019, we also published two special reports, which are closely linked to the fight against fraud in EU expenditure: Special Report No. 01/2019 "Combating fraud in EU expenditure: action must be taken" and Special Report No. 06/2019 "Combating fraud in EU cohesion expenditure: administrative authorities must strengthen detection, response and coordination".
33 Finally, we dedicated a special issue of the ECA Journal to the fight against fraud and corruption and to the protection of the EU's financial interests.
Focus on sustainability The UN Sustainable Development Goals at the heart of our audit work In the last years, in which we focused on environmental and climate issues, issues of sustainability were issues of outstanding importance in the audit work.
In 2019, our work in the area of sustainability was complemented by the analysis of sustainability reporting.
This analysis provided an overview of how the EU institutions publish sustainability information and how they contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
We also organised a conference – the EurH Forum on Sustainability Reporting – to raise awareness of the issue and to bring important stakeholders together.
In July, we attended a meeting of SAIs presidents and stakeholders on the topic of "ORCs are moving something: a review of the implementation of the SDGs" at the high-level political UN Forum on the 2030 Agenda.
Finally, we published a special issue of the ECA Journal on the SDGs.
Audit team: analysis "Sustainability reporting: an inventory of EU institutions, bodies and agencies".
Institutional relations Continuous increase in presentations to the European Parliament, the Council and the national parliaments We work closely with the European Parliament (EP), the Council and the national parliaments in the Member States, because the impact of our work depends to a large extent on the benefits which these institutions derive from our audit findings and recommendations.
Our audit reports will be presented to the relevant committees of the European Parliament and the Council working groups.
In addition, we present our annual reports, as well as our special reports and analyses, to the national parliaments.
In 2019, the presentations of our reports for these institutional addressees continued to rise, mainly due to a marked increase in presentations to national parliaments.
At the same time, less presentations in the EP were held from mid-April to September 2019 due to the parliamentary break. 34
Meeting with the newly elected Presidents of the EU Institutions 2019 was a year of change at the head of many EU institutions: after their election, our President met with the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council.
35 EurH President Lehne with EP President David Sassoli, President of the Commission Ursula von der Leyen and President of the Council Charles Michel.
European Parliament Our members and audit teams are regularly invited by the committees and bodies of the European Parliament, and in particular by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
In 2019, the elections to the European Parliament in May 2019 gave rise to special conditions, in the sense that the parliamentary committees' meetings paused in mid-April and then resumed in September.
We presented 14 committees 31 special reports and 10 analyses (2018: 39 reports and 14 committees).
Following the elections, we launched an awareness-raising campaign to inform the members of the European Parliament of our activities as an external auditor of the EU.
We also organised a series of workshops for the staff of the EP.
Finally, in October 2019, we established a publication portal which will allow more user-friendly access to our reports not only to members of the EP, but also to the general public. 36
Council of the European Union In 2019, our audit teams presented 22 Council working groups and two committees with 26 special reports (2018: 40 reports and 27 working groups).
We also presented two analyses: one to the Committee on Budgets during an informal Council meeting in Romania and another to the working group on the 2030 Agenda.
We also participated in an exchange of views with the Committee on Financial Services on the agreement with the European Central Bank and the Committee on Budgets on our draft budget for 2020 and presented our 2020 work programme in December 2019.
In October 2019, the President of the Euro Group paid us a visit to discuss the current state of play and future reforms of the Economic and Monetary Union and our potential contribution in the area of financial and economic governance in the EU.
In addition, the President of the Euro Group Group met with our members in May 2019.
Member State governments and national parliaments More appearances in national parliaments Our members regularly visit national parliaments and governments.
In 2019, we held 90 presentations in 21 Member States (2018: 50 presentations in 14 Member States).
So far, this represents the highest number. 37
European Commission Exchange of views with our audited high-level bodies For years, it has been common practice for our members to hold an annual meeting with their counterparts at the Commission.
These meetings provide an opportunity to take stock and to reflect on how our cooperation can be further improved.
European Central Bank In June 2019, this tradition continued when President Jean-Claude Juncker invited our members to an exchange of views with the College of Commissioners in Brussels.
In October 2019, we signed an agreement with the European Central Bank setting out the practical arrangements for the exchange of information on the supervisory activities of the European Central Bank for our auditors.
Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKB) Contact Committee of the EU-ORKB Annual Meeting 2019 in Poland Our cooperation with the EU-ORKB takes place primarily within the framework of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the EU-ORKB.
This EU-ORCB network enables us to promote the activities of independent external financial control in the EU and its Member States.
In June 2019, we participated in the annual meeting hosted by the SAI of Poland, which also held the Presidency.
The discussions focused primarily on the challenges and opportunities the Digital Europe presents for the EU-ORKB.
At this meeting we took over the chair of the Contact Committee, as we do every three years.
Contact Committee meeting, Warsaw, June 2019. 39
Online portal "Public financial control in the EU" In January 2019 we launched an online portal for financial control in the European Union.
This online portal provides information on the mandate, status, organisational structure, activity and output of the EU and its Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities.
Public Health Examination Board in the EU In December 2019, we published a second Public Health Examination Board on behalf of the Contact Committee, which provides information on examinations carried out across the European Union in the field of public health.
The Compendium provides background information on public health, its legal bases, its main objectives and related responsibilities at Member State level and at EU level, and highlights the main challenges facing the EU and its Member States in this respect.
It is based on current audit findings of the European Court of Auditors and the SAIs from 23 EU Member States.
In 2019, we started the preparatory work for a third test compendium, to be published in 2020, to address the issue of cybersecurity. 40
INTOSAI In 2019, the ECA continued its active participation in the activities of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), in particular in its role as Vice-Chairman of the Committee of Technical Standards (since December 2016) and as a member of the Sub-Committee for Auditing Accounting and Accounting, the Sub-Committee for Auditing Compliance with Legal Standards and the Sub-Committee for Economic Auditing.
We also participated in the activities and projects of other INTOSAI working bodies, in particular in the areas of environmental assessment, big data, financial modernisation and regulatory reform, and assessment of public policies and programmes.
We also participated in the INTOSAI task force for the professionalisation of auditors, the INTOSAI Development Initiative (IDI) and in the revision project for the ISSAI 200, under the aegis of the Subcommittee for the Audit of Accounting and Accounting.
INTOSAI Congress (INCOSAI) in September 2019 in Moscow.
The conference discussed two main issues in detail: information technology for the development of public administration and the SAIs' contribution to national priorities and objectives.
EUROSAI We have also been active in the activities of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI), the European Regional Group of INTOSAI, in particular in its working groups on the environment audit, IT audit and audit of disaster relief as well as in its task force on audit and ethics.
We also participated in several workshops and seminars, and, together with 14 other European SAIs, contributed to the publication of a joint report on air quality. In October 2019, we held the seventeenth annual meeting of the EUROSAI Environmental Assessment Working Group and a joint conference on biodiversity. Finally, we participated in the third joint conference of EUROSAI-ASOSAI on emerging issues and emergency situations in Israel in March 2019, as well as in the first joint seminar of EUROSAI-AFROSAI in Lisbon in November 2019, hosted by the Portuguese SAIs.
41 Annual meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment, October 2019.
42 The SAIs of EU candidate countries and potential EU candidate countries We also support the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo*, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, Serbia, and Turkey), primarily through a network comparable to the Contact Committee and through our support for activities coordinated by the OECD.
In 2019, 10 auditors from SAIs from the network took part in our internship program.
We also actively contributed to the network's meetings and activities, including the treatment of issues such as issues such as accounting policies with increased impact and digital auditing.
Peer reviews by other EU ORKB A peer review is an external independent review of one or more elements of the organisation and/or functioning of an SAI by a team of peer reviewers from one or more SAIBs.
It is not an examination, but an assessment and consultation by peers, which takes place on a voluntary basis.
In 2019, a peer review team led by our Secretary General, together with the SAIs of Poland and the United Kingdom, carried out a peer review of the SAIs of Lithuania.
The main objective was to assess whether the auditing practice of Lithuanian SAIs was in line with international auditing standards.
In December 2019, the final report was submitted to the Lithuanian Parliament (Seimas). * This designation does not affect the positions on the status and is in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on Kosovo's declaration of independence.
Our Management Members The ECA acts as a collegial body of members with one member in each Member State.
Each Member shall be appointed by the Council after his or her appointment by his or her respective national government after consulting the European Parliament.
We have no role to play in the appointment and appointment of members.
When they take office, they take up a solemn commitment to this before the Court of Justice of the European Union.
43 meeting of the College of the Members of the ECA in Luxembourg on 18 July 2019.
In 2019, the Council appointed four new Court Members: Viorel eltefan (Romania) from 1 July 2019 and Ivana Maletić (Croatia) from 15 July 2019, and Joëlle Elvinger (Luxembourg) and François-Roger Cazala (France) from 1 January 2020.
In addition, the Council extended the terms of office of three members: Alex Brenninkmeijer (Netherlands), Nikolaos Milionis (Greece) and Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany).
Phil Wynn Owen (UK) was a member until 31 January 2020.
As of March 2020, following the appointment of Janusz Wojciechowski as Member of the European Commission in December 2019, a Polish Member of the Commission will have to be appointed and appointed.
In 2019, the College of the Members of the ECA met 21 times (2018: 18 times).
President The President's responsibilities include the institution's strategy, planning and performance management, communication and media work, the relationship with the other institutions, legal issues and internal audit.
The President also represents the Court in all its external relations.
The members shall elect the President from among them for three years, with the possibility of re-election.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected President in September 2016, and was re-elected in September 2019.
The President and Members 44 Note: as at March 2020.
Examination chambers and committees The members are assigned to one of our five examination chambers.In the chambers the majority of our examination reports, analyses and opinions are prepared and accepted.
The Chambers are headed by a Doyen or a Doyenne elected by the Members of the Chamber from among them.
As of December 2019, the five examination chambers were headed by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Milionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Alex Brenninkmeijer and Lazaros S. Lazarou.
Danièle Lamarque was the quality control member in the audit area (until the end of her term of office in December 2019).
She was chair of the Quality Control Committee in the audit area.
The boards divide their tasks among the members.
Each member shall be accountable to the Chamber and to the Court for his or her own examination tasks.
The members are supported by a cabinet.
In addition to their role in the audit chambers, some members have also taken on further responsibilities: Oscar Herics had the head of the Ethics Committee, Samo Jereb the audit committee, Eva Lindström the steering committee of Digitalization, and João Figueiredo the advisory committee of Strategy and Perspective.
Rimantas Šadžius was the member responsible for institutional relations.
Decisions on broader strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President. 45
46 Our upper level of management consists of the Secretary General and the Directors.
There are a total of 10 directorates: five are assigned to the Examination Boards, one to the Examination Board for Quality Control, one to the President and three to the Secretary-General.
Our upper management level Note: As of March 2020.
Performance Measurement We use Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to inform our management about the progress made to our strategic goals, to support the decision-making process and to provide our institutional addressees with information about our performance.
These KPIs provide a comprehensive overview of how we conduct our work in terms of dissemination, impact and perception.
In 2019 as planned 36 reports published We monitor the number and timing of reports published throughout the year.
In 2019 we published 36 reports: 25 special reports and 11 analyses.
This is the number of publications planned in the work programme.
Number of special reports and analyses published 47 In addition, we published six annual reports, three opinions, 18 audit reports and four other publications.
A total of 67 publications were produced in the course of the year. 48
Media Presence Continuous increase in social media coverage We follow media coverage of our work and our institution, which can vary considerably depending on the topic and complexity of a report.
At the same time, external factors can strongly influence the media's interest in our publications.
This may be the case, for example, if the date of publication of a report coincides with an important event or political development, with the potential for a significant increase in public interest in the topic in question.
In 2019, more than 50,000 free online articles and contributions were recorded on social media.
49 For 2019, we noted a significant increase in our social media contributions, which is also due to the more active use of these communication channels during the year.
Enhanced contacts with the press In 2019, we intensified our contacts with the press and the media.
We succeeded in this by publishing o 61 press releases in 23 EU languages (2018: 76) as well as numerous press briefings and press briefings in certain languages; o 25 press briefings (2018: 20), including sector- and country-related press briefings in connection with the annual report.
These press briefings are usually held in Brussels.
We also received journalists working in Brussels and the Member States for visits and organised several briefings on selected reports for industry stakeholders, NGOs and think tanks.
Visit of journalists from the Member States in Luxembourg in November 2019. 50
One million visitors to our website in 2019 exceeded the number of visits to our website for the first time.
In total, we registered around 511,000 individual visitors.
More Followers in social media Throughout the year, we saw an increase in our presence and engagement in social media, particularly on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, which now form an essential part of our communication activities and enable us to engage in direct communication with citizens.
At the end of 2019, our three social media accounts recorded around 29,500 followers (2018: around 22,500). 51
Impact and performance of our work 88% of the stakeholders surveyed consider our audit reports useful We assess the likely impact and usefulness of our audit work based on feedback from our stakeholders from the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, from EU agencies, the permanent representations of the Member States, Member States' public authorities and SAIs, NGOs, the scientific community, the media and from other parties.
Since 2018, we have been requesting feedback from our stakeholders via anonymous electronic surveys on a selection of special reports and analyses as well as on the annual report.
These surveys will also enable stakeholders to provide feedback on the quality of the reports and to make general proposals on the Court's work.
In total, 88% of respondents confirmed the usefulness of our reports for their work in 2019, and 81% acknowledged the usefulness of our reports.
52 Follow-up of our recommendations Almost all our recommendations implemented We determine the state of implementation of our recommendations on the basis of the follow-up carried out by our auditors.
For 2019, we analysed the recommendations we had made in our 2015 special reports and the annual report of the same year.
This analysis shows that 96% of the recommendations we made in our 2015 annual report and 94% of the recommendations in our 2015 special reports have been fully, largely or (at least) partially implemented. 53
Our staff staff allocation At the end of 2019, our institution had 853 permanent and scheduled posts (2018: 853 posts), of which 534 were in the examination chambers, including 118 posts in the members' cabinets.
54 In addition, 75 contract staff and 16 seconded national experts were employed at the Court at the end of the year (2018: 76 and 15, respectively).
Recruitment Our recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions. Our employees have a broad academic and professional background.
In 2019, the Court hired 77 staff (2018: 79 staff): 17 officials, 33 temporary staff, 21 contract staff and six seconded national experts.
We also provided 55 internship places (2018: 60) for university graduates for periods of three to five months.
Age profile Almost three quarters (74%) of active personnel at the end of 2019 are between 40 and 59 years old.
55 More than half of our directors and executive managers are 50 years old or older.
As a result, in the next five to 10 years, in the next five to ten years, these employees will be re-established in the senior management positions.
Equal opportunities The Court offers its employees equal opportunities at all levels of the organisation.
Overall, we have a balanced women's and men's share among our employees.
In 2019, around one third of our directors and executive managers are women.
57 Support for audit activities Professional training Record level of training activities In 2019, we continued the diversification and expansion of our staff's training activities.
We organized a record number of training courses, conferences, presentations and workshops on a variety of topics.
We continued to provide financial support to staff to participate in externally organized courses and programs to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and qualifications.
We also launched a program for the development of leadership skills, which consists of courses, coaching and mentoring for employees who want to develop their leadership skills.
We supported the HR operations by training newly created pools of career advisors, mentors and internal intermediaries.
The target for training days exceeded The target for training days (5 days of non-language-related training per year) was exceeded anew in line with the recommendations of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).
Our examiners completed an average of 7.5 training days; on average, our non-audit employees accounted for 3.6 training days.
Cooperation in the field of further education In July 2019, the second Summer Academy for Public Financial Control and Accountability took place at the University of Pisa on the subject of "Digitalization of Examination".
In addition, we continued our cooperation with the University of Lorraine, in which we offered the fifth edition of the postgraduate program "Audit of public organizations and policies", which culminates in the Master's degree "Management of public organizations".
In addition, we launched a new postgraduate program on "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit".
These programmes are now open to European Commission staff.
Finally, we intensified our cooperation with the International Audit Committee of NATO (IBAN) in the field of training.
In May 2019, the Court held a workshop on "Assessment of the Union's Security and Defence Policy", bringing together auditors of the Commission, NATO, the European Defence Agency, the Joint Organisation for Arms Cooperation (OCCAR), the Athena Mechanism and several EU Supreme Audit Authorities.
Launch of ECAdemy In addition, we have launched ECAdemy, an instrument that enables us to exchange course material, publish records of conferences, and organize webinars with all those interested in public financial control in the EU and its Member States.
This e-learning platform is open to the general public free of charge at https://ecademy.eca.europa.eu.
58 Sabine Chaupain-Guillot, Vice-Chairman of the Training Committee of the University of Lorraine, Lazaros S. Lazarou, EurH Member (February 2019).
Translation In 2019 we translated and revised more than 223,000 pages including external contracts (2018: 251 000).
We translate our publications into all official EU languages.
We also translate our correspondence with the authorities of the Member States into their national language, as required by law.
Our translators are also often involved in our audit activities by providing linguistic support during verification visits and in the preparation of reports.
Information technology, working environment and innovation Transition to cloud-based services A major milestone is the transition to cloud-based services, providing an easy-to-use system for various applications from end-users (IT, personnel, office equipment, security, etc.).
A new action plan on IT security has achieved many of its objectives, such as the more effective and regular removal of software vulnerabilities, the prevention of unauthorized access to cloud services, the verification of information security management and the improvement of our security monitoring capabilities.
Finally, an ambitious technical programme was implemented in 2019 to provide equipment and systems that allow all employees to work in a more flexible way, such as home office, teleconferencing and mobile work.
New open data access policy In 2019, we also adopted a new open data access policy.
The re-use of documents and the process of providing our data will be determined in cooperation with the Publications Office. 59
ECALab ECALab, our interdisciplinary innovation laboratory team, has continued to research technologies such as text mining, artificial intelligence, and process mining.
In 2019, ECALab also started to support a number of audit tasks.
Technology and Innovation Network in the Auditing Sector In November 2019, at the conference "Big and open data" held at our premises in Luxembourg, we also founded the EU-ORKB Technology and Innovation for Audit (TINA).
Conference on "Big and open data", November 2019, Luxembourg.
In order to accompany the development of the European Blockchain Services infrastructure by the European Commission and the Member States on the basis of our "conceptual proof", a further network of EU-ORKBs on Blockchain technology has been established in the audit area. 60
Building The yard currently has three buildings ("K1, "K2" and "K3") which form a single integrated technical unit.
K1 The K1 building, which was opened in 1988, has offices for up to 310 employees and meeting rooms.
The basements are equipped with parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, the library and the main archive, while the entire top floor is used for technical facilities.
The K1 building was modernised in 2008 in order to bring it into line with national health, safety and environmental requirements.
As far as possible, the technology in the K1 building was adapted in order to make compatibility with the K2 and K3 buildings.
The basements have parking, technical facilities, storage rooms and the fitness centre.
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees and they also include meeting rooms, a conference room with interpretation booths, video conference rooms, a cafeteria and simple kitchen areas.
We are currently modernising the K2 building to optimise the organization of its work areas and to update certain technical facilities.
A detailed study of this project was carried out in 2019 and work began at the end of the year.
As approved by the European Parliament and the Council in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining budget of the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation. 61
The basements have parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, discharging areas, waste storage facilities, printing works, kitchens and archives.
In addition, there are offices for 503 employees, meeting rooms and an IT room in this building.
Based on the world's leading method of assessing and certifying the sustainability of buildings (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, BREEAM), the K3 building was rated "very good". 62
Further increase of our security measures In 2019 we took a number of measures to increase security in our buildings in Luxembourg.
This included the establishment of a team of armed security personnel.
An agreement has been reached with the Luxembourg police to allow us to use their national training centres.
We have also agreed with the European External Action Service to assist our auditors in their visits to high-risk countries.
63 Eduardo Ruiz García, Secretary General of the EC, and Helga Schmid, Secretary General of the EEAS.
Environmental management As an EU institution, it is our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all activities.
We strive to continue to systematically reduce our CO2 emissions and regularly analyse the greenhouse gas emissions generated by our activities.
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 amounted to a total of 10 178 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), which represents a reduction of 3% compared to 2017.
We are proud of our EMAS certification for environmental management and audit: We successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015.
In the last quarter of 2019, an external EMAS audit was carried out, which resulted in the renewal of our EMAS certification for the period 2020-2022.
New initiatives such as the "plastic-free EurH" initiative are progressing as planned.
In 2019, we also, in cooperation with the Luxembourg Ministry of Agriculture, set up four hives in our gardens.
The bees are cared for by volunteers.
We assume that this will have a positive impact on the sustainability of pollinators in our environment. 64
Court's accountability Financial information The Court is financed from the general budget of the European Union, the budget of which falls under the heading of administrative expenditure.
For 2019, our budget amounted to around €147 million, of which 98% was used throughout the year.
This represents less than 0.1% of total EU expenditure and around 1.5% of total EU administrative expenditure.
Implementation of the budget 2019 65 10 – Members of the institution 11 324 20 – Building 3 526 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 8 085 3 523 Use of appropriations as % BUDGET YEAR 2019 Final appropriations Title 1: Members and commitments 97 % 99% Payments Staff of the institution (thousand euro) 11 004 10 963 12 – Officials and temporary staff 107 367 14 – Other staff and external services 6 683 106 434 99% 106 434 162 – Missions 3 200 6 407 2 700 96% 84% 6 272 2 457 161 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for members 3 089 and the staff of the institution Subtotal Title 1 131 663 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous expenditure 3 008 129 553 97 % 98 % 2 201 128 327 1 965 212 + 214 + 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 976 8 085 100 % 5 138 23 – Current operating costs 424 880 90 % 769 25 – Meetings and conferences 620 339 808 827 767 767 669 876 127 776 927 2 727 707 927 827
Budget 2020 The 2020 budget increases by 4.3% compared to 2019.
BUDGET 2020 2019 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 – Members of the institution 11 751 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 111 860 14 – Other staff and external services 7 403 162 – Missions 3 370 161 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 11 474 66 107 666 6 381 3 450 Subtotal Title 1 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 2 945 137 329 3 098 132 069 20 – Building 3 255 2 984 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 7 7 718 7 605 212 + 214 + 216 – Mobiles and ancillary costs 963 998 23 – Current operating expenditure 563 25 – Meetings and conferences 696 27 – Information and publications 2 613 Subtotal Title 2 15 808 European Court of Auditors total 153 137 548 700 1 986 14 821 146 890
Internal and external audit Internal audit The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk management issues.
It provides independent and objective assurance and provides advisory services designed to add value and improve the Court's activities.
This department will also report to the Committee on Internal Audit, consisting of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee shall monitor regularly the progress made in the various tasks set out in the annual work programme of the Internal Audit Service and shall ensure the independence of the Service.
In the course of 2019, the Internal Audit Service carried out three selected tasks: "Risks and challenges of the Audit Committee", "Travel expenses of members and senior officials, expenses of representation of members and the use of the Court's vehicle fleet" and "occupational training activities of the Court".
In addition, our risk management strategy and three annual declarations by subdelegated authorising officers were examined.
In addition, the Internal Audit Service monitored the implementation of its previous recommendations by ensuring that the agreed action plans were implemented and by advising on the new internal control framework of the Court.
Our internal auditor did not identify any deficiencies which, because of their nature or scale, would seriously call into question the reliability of the internal control systems as a whole; these control systems had been established by the authorising officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations in 2019.
External audit Our financial statements are audited by an independent external auditor.
We attach great importance to this audit as it shows that we apply the same principles of transparency and accountability to ourselves as to the bodies we audit.
The auditor's report – PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à.r.l. – on the Court's financial statements for the financial year 2018 was published on 4 April 2019. 67
Audit opinions of our independent auditor – Financial year 2018 68 On the Court's annual accounts: "According to our assessment, the annual accounts give an actual picture of the European Court of Auditors' financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2018 and of the results of its operations, its cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ending that reference date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 31.12.2012, p.
Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 June 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1268/2012 (OJ L 302, 30.11.2012, p. 1).
1) laying down rules for the application of the Financial Regulation and its subsequent amendments.'
On the use of resources and the audit procedures of the Court: "Our work described in this report did not come across situations from which we would have to conclude that in all essential respects and taking into account the abovementioned assessment criteria or the resources allocated to the Court have not been used for the purposes envisaged and that the audit procedures established do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
Discharge for the financial year 2017 Like the other EU institutions, the Court is also subject to the discharge procedure.
In March 2019, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2017.
As in every year, we have carefully analysed all the problems raised during the discharge procedure in terms of our audit and management responsibility, we have taken appropriate measures and we have carefully reported our follow-up to the European Parliament.
Peer Review of our Ethics Framework Finally, in 2019 our Ethics Framework was subjected to an external expert review by the SAIs of Poland and Croatia.
This report was completed in January 2020. 69
Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation In accordance with Article 74(9) of the Financial Regulation Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares, in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, that the information in this report, as well as the additional internal information, that includes financial and management information, including the results of controls, is accurate and accurate, and declares, with sufficient certainty, that, the resources provided for the activities described in this report, have been used for the purposes provided and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, the control procedures in place are proportionate for the purposes and the benefits of the controls provided, as necessary, for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, as well as for the appropriate handling of fraud and suspicions of fraud.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 March 2020 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 70
The following photos may be reused with the copyright holder, the source and, if specified, the name of the photographers or architects: p. 2, © European Union, 2020, source: EurH.
© European Union, 2019, Source: European Union Agency for Safety, Hygiene and Health Protection at Work
15, first row, right, © European Union, 2010 / Carlos Juan.
15, second row, middle, © European Union, 2013, source: EP / Bauweraerts Didier.
17 © European Union, 2013, source: EP / Jennifer Jacquemart.
19 © European Union, 2015 / Angelos Tzortzinis.
21 © European Union, 2016, source: EP / Fred Marvaux.
Page 26, left, © European Union, 2019 / Anouk Delafortrie.
S. 26, right, © European Union, 2019, Lisa Hastert.
28 © European Union, 2019, Source: EP / Benoit Bourgeois.
35, left, © European Union, 2019, Source: EP (20191022_EP-093734A_DLL_007).
© European Union, 2019, source, European Commission.
35, right, © European Union, 2019, source, European Council.
38, above, © European Union, 2019, Source, European Commission, Audiovisual Service / Etienne Ansotte.
62, © European Union, 2019, Source: EAFRD.
Architects of the buildings: Paul Noël (1988) and Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013).
If you want to use or play content where the EU does not have copyrights, you have to obtain a permit directly from copyright holders: pp. 7 and 8: Image symbols of Pixel perfect on the platform https://flaticon.com.
12, from left to right: © contains modified Copernicus Sentinel data (2018) processed by GeoVille; © Shutterstock / Andrey_Popov; © Shutterstock / G-Stock Studio.
13; from left to right: © Shutterstock / Antonio Guillem; © Shutterstock / Gorodenkoff; © Shutterstock / igorstevanovic.
15, first row, left, © Shutterstock / Billion Photos; p. 15, first row, middle, © Shutterstock / Gorodenkoff.
15, second row, left, © Shutterstock / LMWH; p. 15, second row, right, © Shutterstock / Photolines.
15, last row, left to right: © Shutterstock / Syda Productions; © Shutterstock / Jenson; © Courtesy of EUROCONTROL.
18, © Shutterstock / Bannafarsai_Stock.
20, © Shutterstock / pisaphotography.
See page 26, Mitte, © MCI Benelux, 2019.
On page 39, © NIK (Najwyższa Izba Kontroli), Warsaw, 2019.
Contact the EU Visit In the European Union, there are hundreds of "Europe Direct European Information Offices".
You can find an information office nearby via this link: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en Telephone or e-mail The Europe Direct service will answer your questions about the European Union.
Contact Europe Direct — via the freephone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (but some telephone service providers charge charges), — via the freephone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (but some telephone service providers charge charges), — via email: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en Information on the EU On the Internet: On the Europa portal you can find information on the European Union in all official languages: https://europa.eu/european-union/index_en EU publications.You can, in some cases, download or order EU publications via https://publications.europa. eu/en/publications.
If you would like more copies of a free publication, please contact Europe Direct or the information office nearby (see https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en).
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU law since 1952 in all official languages, can be found in EUR-Lex: https://eur-lex.europa.eu EU open data The EU data sets are available via its Open Data Portal (http://data.europa.eu/euodp/en).
The data can be downloaded free of charge for commercial and non-commercial purposes.
ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 QJ-AA-20-001-EN-C
THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2013 Brief information on the audit of the EU Presentation of the annual reports of the European Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2014 ISBN 978-92-872-0998-6 doi:10.2865/23970 © European Union, 2014 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
EN 2013 Brief information on the audit of the EU Presentation of the annual reports of the European Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013
President's Preface 02 Each November, the European Court of Auditors reports on the results of its annual audits of EU financial management during the previous financial year.
On the basis of the audit evidence obtained, the Court provides a guarantee of reliability for the use of EU funds and highlights the greatest risk of EU funds not being used properly.
The reports also contain recommendations for possible improvements in EU financial management.
In this way, the Court supports the European Parliament and the Council in the review of EU expenditure and contributes to the effective implementation of the Court's accountability of EU citizens.
This "in-depth EU audit in 2013" presents and explains the main findings in our 2013 Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget and the European Development Funds.
As in previous years, the reports show the extent to which the EU and national financial management actors have in their reports a true picture of the management of financial resources, ensured the application of the EU financial rules, and respected the basic principles of economy, economy and effectiveness.
2013 was the last year of a seven-year programming period, and we are publishing our annual reports on this year in a transition period, which is important for the EU and its finances.
As our reports show, a new European Parliament and a new Commission are facing both long-standing and new challenges for financial management and accountability, in the 2014-2020 programming period, which is now under way.
The continued pressure on EU and national finance requires careful management and control of EU funds and better forecasts of long-term financing needs.
In particular, our reports highlight the need for the Commission and the authorities of the Member States, in their EU financial situation, to pay more attention to the use of EU funds to achieve results that, in other ways, could not be achieved equally efficiently or effectively.
At the same time, the Court's audit results show that more can and should be done to ensure that EU spending is in line with the rules.
The Court will be happy to take the opportunity to assist the new European Parliament and the new Commission in solving these and other problems of financial management and accountability that exist at EU level.
To this end, we have also, on the basis of our audit experience, prepared two Landscape analyses, which highlight the key challenges facing the EU in the areas of accountability, audit and financial management.
Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President of the European Court of Auditors
Content 03 Page 04 Overall Results 04 Key Statements 05 Requirement for the use of EU funds 15 EU resources and the provision of results 18 Detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure 18 Revenues 20 Agriculture: market support and direct payments 22 Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 24 Regional policy, transport and energy 26 Employment and social affairs 28 External relations, external aid and enlargement 30 Research and other internal policy areas 32 Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 33 European Development Fund (EDF) 35 Background information 35 Audit approach at a glance 37 The European Court of Auditors and its work
Overall Results 04 Key Statements Summary of the Statement of Assurance for 2013 The European Court of Auditors (EuRH, ‘the Court') gives an unqualified opinion on the reliability of the accounts of the European Union for 2013.
Overall, the revenues for 2013 are legal and proper.
Commitments for 2013 are overall legal and regular.
Payments for 2013 are severely affected by errors.
Therefore, the Court gives a failed opinion on its legality and regularity.
The text of the Statement of Assurance is set out in Chapter 1 of the Annual Report for 2013. ο The Court estimates the error rate in the 2013 payments of 4.7% in terms of the rate of irregularities, close to the error rate for 2012 (4.8%) and constant above the materiality threshold of 2%. ο Overall, the monitoring and control systems in question, with significant differences between Member States, ensured the regularity of payments due. ο The two expenditure areas for regional policy, transport and energy with an error rate of 6.9% and rural development, environment, fisheries and health with an error rate of 6.7%, were the worst.
In the case of shared management as a whole, i.e. including agriculture: market support and direct payments, as well as employment and social affairs, the estimated error rate was 5.2%. ο Corrective measures and recoveries by the authorities in the Member States and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Overall results 05 The correct use of EU funds The EU funds for 2013 Each year, the Court examines the EU's revenue and expenditure and, in its audit, assesses the reliability of the annual accounts and the compliance of revenue and expenditure operations with the rules and regulations in force.
In 2013, expenditure from the EU budget totaled 148.5 billion euros or around 290 euros per citizen.
These expenditures represent about one percent of the EU's gross national income and represent about two percent of the total public expenditure of the EU Member States.
The EU budget is adopted annually by the European Parliament and the Council on the basis of a seven-year financial framework.
The Commission's primary task is to ensure that the budget is spent properly.
At around 80% of expenditure, particularly in the fields of agriculture and cohesion, the Commission shares this task with the EU Member States.
Where do the funds come from?
The EU budget is financed from various sources.
The largest share is made up of payments made by Member States on the basis of their gross national income (EUR 110.0 billion).
Other sources include Member States' payments on the basis of the VAT they charge (14.5 billion euros) and customs and agricultural duties (15.4 billion euros).
The annual EU budget is spent in a wide range of policy areas (see Graph 1).
Payments are intended to support activities as diverse as research projects, training unemployed people or agricultural production.
Overall results 06 Expenditure for 2013 6.9% Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 8.9% Research and other internal policies 9.4% Employment and social affairs 9.9% Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 4.2% External relations, external assistance and enlargement Expenditure for 2013 total 148.5 billion Euro 30.4% Regional policy, transport and energy 30.3% Agriculture: market support and direct payments 2013 audit findings A key element of the Court's audit work is the audit of the samples of operations drawn from all parts of the EU budget, in order to arrive at statistical estimates of how the revenue and the various areas of expenditure are wrong.
The results for 2013 are summarised in Figure 2.
Further information on the Court's audit approach and the estimation of the most likely error rate can be found on page 35.
Audit of transactions for the EU budget as a whole - Results for 2013 Results of the audit audit and the most likely error rate Revenues Expenditure Audit conclusion 0.0 % 4.7 % €150 billion Not substantially affected by mistakes €30 billion €60 billion €90 billion €120 billion % Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on quantifiable errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) Graph 2 Graph 1
Overall results 07 For 2013, the Court concludes that revenue was not significantly affected by errors.
For the expenditure budget as a whole, the estimated error rate is 4.7%, resulting in a failed opinion on the regularity of the expenditure (an explanation of the concept of "order ", can be found on page 36).
For more information on the different areas of expenditure, see pages 18 to 34 and the corresponding chapters of the annual report on the financial year 2013.
Review of transactions in the individual EU areas of expenditure – Results for 2013 Reviewed amount and likely error rate 6,9 % 3,6 % 3,1 % 6,6 % 4,6 % 2,6 % Employment and social areas of expenditure 6,6 % 2,6 % Employment and social areas of expenditure in the area of expenditure By % error in the area of external assistance and enlargement, for the most part, administrative expenditure and related expenditure 1.0% 0 €10 billion €20 billion €30 billion €40 billion €50 billion The most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on quantifiable errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) The Court uses statistical standard methods to estimate the error rate (see Annex 1.1 to the Annual Report). % Graph 3 Overall results 08 Analysis of the audit results The Court estimates the error rate measured in the amount of irregularities for payments for 2013 at 4,7 %.
This figure is close to the 2012 error rate (4.8%) and consistently above the 2% materiality threshold (see Graph 4). Estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole (2007-2013) EU expenditure 10 % 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% 6.9% 5.2 % 4.8% 4.7% 3.3% 3.7% 2007 2008 Upper error limit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 % Estimated error rate Lower error limit Note: The Court uses standard statistical methods to estimate the most likely error rate.
The Court is 95% sure that the error rate for the population concerned is between the lower error limit and the upper error limit.
Further details can be found in Annex 1.1 and Figure 1.3 of Chapter 1 of the Annual Report. Figure 4
Overall results 09 Errors, waste and fraud The Court's estimated error rate is not a measure of fraud, inefficiency, or waste.
It is a disaster in relation to funds that should not have been paid out because they have not been used in accordance with the existing legislation.
Typical errors include payments for ineligible expenditure or purchases for which the procurement rules have not been properly applied.
Fraud is an intentional act of deception with the aim of obtaining advantages.
The Court shall forward cases to OLAF (the EU Anti-Fraud Office), which it shall be responsible for carrying out any further investigations in cooperation with the authorities in the Member States, in which it is suspected of having fraud, in the course of its investigations.
A comparison of the error rates estimated for the different areas of expenditure is shown in Figure 5.
Higher quotas in research and other internal policies, administrative expenditure and related expenditure have been offset by lower quotas in the areas of rural development, environment, fisheries and health, as well as external relations, external assistance and enlargement.
As in 2012, the two areas of expenditure were the most flawed: regional policy, transport and energy and rural development, the environment, fisheries and health.
These two areas, together with the two other areas of shared management (agriculture: market support and direct payments and employment and social affairs), have an estimated error rate of 5.2 %.
For all other operating expenditure (mainly managed directly by the Commission), the estimated error rate was 3.7 %.
In addition, the Court found an estimated error rate of 1.0% of the administrative expenditure.
Overall results 10 Comparison of the estimated error rates in the various EU spending areas for 2012 and 2013 8% 6% 4% 2% 0 6.8 % 6.9% 6.7% 2012 2013 7.9% 3.8% 3.6% 3.2% 3.1% 3.1% 4.6% 3.9% 3.3% 2.6% 0% 0% Regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: market support and direct payments Employment and social development of rural areas, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure Graph 5
Overall results 11 Breakdown of the estimated total error rate by area of expenditure and by type of error Regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: market support and direct payments Rural development, environment, fisheries and health Employment and social research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 4.7% Errors in agricultural area declarations Serious infringements of the procurement rules Ineligible projects, activities or beneficiaries Inclusion of ineligible costs in 1.8% Cost expenditures % Overall error rate of the EU budget estimated error rate % Share of the total error rate (in percentage points) 2.1 % 1.1% 0.7 % Other error rates 0.3 % 0.3 % 0.1 % 0.2% Total error rate 0.6 % 1.0 % 1.1% Share of the estimated total error rate by type of error by area of expenditure Graph 6
Overall results 12 The Court analyses the contribution of the different types of error and the different areas of expenditure to the estimated total error rate (see Graph 6).
Expenditure that did not meet the necessary conditions to be claimed in the context of EU funded projects accounted for the largest share of the estimated total error rate (inclusion of ineligible costs in cost statements: 39 % or 1.8 percentage points of the estimated total error rate).
Second, projects where either the financed object/activity or the beneficiary should not have been eligible under the applicable rules (non-eligible projects/activities or beneficiaries: 22 % or 1.1 percentage points of the estimated total error rate).
As the largest expenditure area, the highest estimated error rate, regional policy, transport and energy are by far the largest contributors to the estimated overall error rate (44% or 2.1 percentage points of the estimated overall error rate).
Agriculture: market support and direct payments, in which expenditure was almost the same, contributes roughly half as much to the estimated overall error rate.
Corrective measures have a positive impact on the error rate Member States and the Commission are applying corrective measures to protect the EU budget in cases of ineffective control systems or in error of the EU budget.
If such corrective measures had not been taken in respect of the 2013 payments audited by the Court, the estimated total error rate would have been 6,3 % instead of 4,7 %.
However, the estimated error rate could be significantly further reduced by better application of existing control systems and corrective measures.
The Court noted that the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information in order to detect and correct the errors in a large proportion of the error in the areas of shared management before applying to the Commission for reimbursement.
For example, this would have reduced the estimated error rate in the field of regional policy, transport and energy from 6.9% to 3.9%, in the field of rural development, the environment, fisheries and health from 6.7% to 2.0% and in the field of employment and social affairs from 3.1% to 1.9%.
New challenges for the presentation of reliable financial information Reporting of the corrective adjustments mentioned above does not clearly distinguish between the main types of corrective adjustments and the information is largely provided outside the accounting system.
This makes a more detailed analysis difficult and reduces the accuracy of the figures in the accounts and related financial reporting.
A further development is the increasing use of financial instruments to support investment in potentially economically viable projects in the form of loans, guarantees, equity and other risk mechanisms.
Due to its complex structure, financial instruments require special care in assessing and recording them in accordance with internationally recognised public sector accounting principles.
Overall results 13 Continuous increase in the amounts to be financed from future budgets Among the main features of the financial management and management of the EU in 2013 are: ο a strong increase in the volume of payments to be made by the Commission by means of amending budgets: 9.6 % of the initial budget; ο a sustained increase in the commitments to be made in future (by 2.6%) despite the high volume of payments; ο an unchanged period (on average more than two years) between the initial commitment date and the date on which expenditure declarations are accepted by the Commission; ο only 37% of the funds made available to financial instruments were paid to final beneficiaries at the end of 2012; ο repayments, interest and dividends of EUR 259 million which have accumulated since 2008 were not recognised as revenue.
What are obligations and payments?
The EU budget consists of two elements: obligations (payments to be paid in the current or coming years) and payments (covering the current year)
Payments can only be made against valid commitments.
The annual ceilings for commitments and payments are laid down in the multiannual financial framework agreed by the Council and Parliament.
The nature of the EU spending programmes, in particular the long period between the commitment of funds and the payment, is putting increasing pressure on future payment budgets.
This is reflected in a significantly higher budget for payments in 2013, and this trend will continue in a similar way in future budgets.
Overall results 14 How can financial management and management increase the level of information within traditional accounting systems? ο All financial instruments and financial instruments should be included and evaluated in line with internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector, in particular by means of reliable means of identifying and recording impairments; ο Provide information on the means of cash management held by the final beneficiaries until payment; ο Develop and publish a long-term cash flow forecast, which will be updated annually; this would make it easier for the stakeholders concerned to identify future payment needs and to identify budgetary priorities. ο Improve? Do you want to know more?
Full information on the main audit findings can be obtained from Chapter 1 "Declaration of reliableness and related statements" of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
Overall results 15 EU funds and EU funds should be used in accordance with the principles of sound financial management (sparability, soundness and effectiveness).
Against this background, it is necessary to achieve good performance inputs (financial, human, material, organisational or regulatory resources necessary for the implementation of the programme), outputs (to be achieved within the framework of the programme), results (immediate changes caused by the programme for the direct stakeholders or for the direct beneficiaries) and impacts (long-term societal changes, at least partly due to the EU action).
The Court assesses these aspects in its economic audits.
The emphasis is not enough on performance The use of EU funds during the 2007-2013 programming period focused on absorption (use it or lose it – not use it) and compliance with legislation and not good performance.
For example, when selecting projects for EU funding, the need for the use of the available EU funds was the first priority, the second was the need to comply with the rules and the third was the need to achieve results and impacts, and only to a certain extent was the need to achieve results and impacts.
This lack of emphasis on performance is a crucial weakness in the way in which a large part of the EU budget is built.
According to the Commission, the priority for the 2014-2020 programming period is more on performance, with performance-related reserves being the main incentives.
By way of these reserves, the Commission will withhold 6% of the funds allocated to individual Member States until the performance is found to be satisfactory.
However, in practice, input and output indicators will continue to be largely decisive for the release of funds.
Results indicators will be used by the Commission only in a few areas.
Whether performance reserves work more effectively will depend on the success of the Commission in negotiating appropriate targets and milestones at the start of the programming period and in maintaining more accurate, reliable and up-to-date data from Member States in determining whether the targets have been achieved.
The reporting framework is not suitable for the desired performance culture Performance reporting is spread across several general reports at the level of the general budget.
These reports do not provide any information on progress towards achieving the Europe 2020 Strategy objectives, nor do they provide a comprehensive overview of the results in the form of EU added value.
However, the fourth evaluation report is a step in the right direction in that it seeks to link the main financial programmes with the available performance information relevant to the Europe 2020 strategy.
At the level of the Commission's individual Directorates-General, performance objectives for the policy areas are defined in the management plans in their respective areas of responsibility, in which case the annual annual activity reports report them.
The Court's analysis of the management plans and annual activity reports of the Commission's Directorates-General shows that the reliability assurance is limited to aspects of regularity and internal control and does not take performance-related aspects into account.
Moreover, the objectives would be too general to be used for management purposes, and the selected indicators would not always be suitable for performance measurement.
Overall Results 16 The added value of EU expenditure is not always demonstrated The 19 special reports adopted by the Court in 2013 cover a wide range of issues in the impact assessments and assess whether the EU intervention has been carried out in accordance with the principles of sound financial management (efficiency, sound financial management and effectiveness).
The Court examined the lessons to be learned from its 2013 Special Reports on the development of the new programmes and projects for the 2014-2020 programming period and concluded that ο the EU added value could not always be ensured. ο In several cases, there were potential cash-take effects, i.e. the beneficiaries had carried out the activity without EU funding.
Example: European Globalisation Adjustment Fund The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund compensates workers affected by mass redundancies.
The Court noted that one third of the funding was used for measures that would have been paid by Member States anyway (Special Report No 7/2013 ‘Did the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund provide EU added value in the reintegration of redundant workers').
For example: Risk-Sharing Finance Facility The Commission had not sufficiently demonstrated that the EU funds made available under the Risk-Sharing Finance Facility (financial instrument to facilitate access to research debt funding) lead to higher investments than the beneficiaries would make without public funds (Special Report No 2/2013 "Have the Commission ensured the efficient implementation of the Seventh Research Framework Programme?").
Overall results 17 Most of the Court's recommendations have been implemented The follow-up to the Court's recommendations of the follow-up to the audit of the audits is a key element of the accountability cycle and may have a positive effect on the effective implementation by the Commission of the recommendations contained in the reports.
The Court analysed how the Commission's recommendations from eight special reports adopted in 2007-2010 have continued to be addressed and found that the Commission had implemented either in full or to a large extent 79 % of the recommendations.
The Court recommends to the Commission that the next revision of the Financial Regulation should streamline the framework for its performance reporting. ο The Commission should ensure that the evaluation report includes a summary report that provides all available information on progress towards achieving the Europe 2020 objectives. ο The Commission should continue to develop its performance management and reporting system to ensure that it can take on responsibility for the sound management of the budget and the contribution of the EU budget to political success. ο Do you want to know more?
Full information on the Court's evaluation of performance can be found in Chapter 10 "EU budget and output performance" of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the 2013 budget.
All special reports are available on the Court's website: http://www.eca.europa.eu/en/ Pages/AuditReportsOpinions.aspx.
The contributions calculated on the basis of the gross national income (GNI) of the Member States and the VAT collected by the Member States accounted for 74% and 10 % of the revenue respectively in 2013.
Import duties and the production levy on sugar levied on behalf of the EU by the authorities in the Member States represented 10% of the EU's revenue and the remaining 6% came from other revenue.
Explanation on the audit of EU revenue EU revenue, which is based on GNI and VAT, is calculated on the basis of macroeconomic statistics and estimates provided by Member States.
The Court's audit of the regularity of the underlying transactions concerned the Commission's processing of these data, but not the initial collection of these data by the authorities in the Member States.
Consequently, the Court's conclusion concerns the impact, which the Commission may have on the total amount of revenue.
With regard to customs duties, the Court is examining how the Commission is dealing with the databases submitted by the Member States on the claims identified.
These data are not sufficiently harmonised among Member States.
A reservation is an instrument whereby the possibility of correction can be kept open for a disputed element in GNI data transmitted by a Member State.
There is a general reservation regarding the Greek GNI data for 2008 and 2009, as the data are still based on provisional estimates.
This aspect is part of a problem that affects Greece's national accounts.
Detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure sectors 19 The customs authorities of the Member States shall carry out checks to verify that importers comply with customs and import requirements.
The Court noted that the quality of these checks was very different in the Member States visited.
This may result in importers deciding to declare goods in a Member State other than the Member State in which they are established in order to reduce the likelihood of checks and to make the levying of the duties due more difficult.
One example that appears to be the case is the case of an importer who unloaded Chinese textiles in Hamburg (Germany) and transported them to Rotterdam where they were declared for free circulation and then transported to Poland for final sale.
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ο The Commission should work to ensure that Member States harmonise their methods for the calculation of data on unobserved economic activity. ο The Commission should draw up a detailed action plan of clear milestones and monitor its implementation closely to tackle the problems of drawing up the Greek economic accounts. ο The Commission should establish minimum standards for the control of the Member States' customs authorities in order to ensure a more focused focus on high-risk importers. ο Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU revenue can be found in Chapter 2 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
20 This expenditure covers the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), one of the two main instruments of the EU's common agricultural policy.
The aim of this policy is to increase the productivity of agriculture, to ensure an adequate standard of living for the agricultural population, to stabilise markets, to ensure supply and to ensure that consumers are supplied at reasonable prices.
Expenditure shall be subject to shared management with the Member States.
Yes Estimated error rate: 3.6% (2012: 3.8%) Control systems tested: Control systems tested: Control systems tested: Effective Most expenditure in this area is calculated on the basis of agricultural land.
Many quantifiable errors are the result of inaccuracies in the beneficiaries' applications, the most common of which is excessive area data (see example).
Example: Overdeclarations – Application for aid for non-eligible areas In Germany, Ireland, Greece, France, Poland and Romania*, some areas declared as permanent pasture for which payments were made were in fact covered in full or in part with non-eligible vegetation (density of bushes or trees).
No EU aid should have been paid for these areas which are not eligible for aid.
In Greece, this error occurred because such land was classified as eligible grassland and was included in the agricultural parcel identification system accordingly. * Note on the indication of Member States in the examples: the sample approach used by the Court does not assess operations every year in each Member State, recipient country and/or region.
Examples of errors should illustrate the most common types of errors.
They do not form the basis for conclusions on the Member States, beneficiary countries and/or regions concerned.
In all the EAGF direct aid schemes, the beneficiaries of EU aid are legally obliged to "compliance with other commitments" (cross compliance) relating to environmental protection, human, animal and animal health, and the preservation of land in good agricultural and environmental conditions.
Where farmers fail to comply with these obligations, their aid shall be reduced.
In the course of its audits, the Court found breaches of 25 % of the operations related to those obligations.
In the case of a significant number of error cases, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before the Commission had requested a refund.
If this information had been used to correct errors before the Commission's expenditure was reported, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 2,5 %.
The Court's investigation of the integrated management and control systems (IPCoS) in four Member States (Germany, Ireland, France and Italy) revealed weaknesses in the management control procedures and the quality of the databases in three Member States (Ireland, France and Italy), weaknesses in the quality of on-the-spot checks in two Member States (Germany and Italy), weaknesses in the recovery procedures in two Member States (Ireland and Italy).
Despite the deficiencies detected during the examination, the IACOS contributes significantly to the prevention of errors in the expenditure covered by this system.
In the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 or later, producer groups in the fruit and vegetable sector can receive EU aid.
Certain conditions must be met for recognition as a producer group as regards the number and relative size of the member producers.
The Court found that nine out of the 40 producer groups examined in Poland did not meet these conditions.
In its 2013 Annual Activity Report, the Commission reported that it had reserved a risk amount of 25% of the total expenditure under the measure in question in Poland.
Our recommendations The Court makes the following recommendations: ο The Commission and the Member States should take the necessary measures to ensure that the potential of the IACS is fully exploited; for example, they should ensure that the eligibility and size of the agricultural parcels are properly assessed and covered. ο The Commission should monitor the remedies related to the shortcomings of EU aid for producer groups in Poland. Do you want to know more?
The Court's full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure on market support and direct payments in the agricultural sector can be found in Chapter 3 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
22 This expenditure covers the policy areas "Rural Development", "Climate and Environmental Policy", "Maritime Affairs and Fisheries", and "Health and Consumer Protection".
Of the payments in this area, 88% are from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
Expenditure shall be subject to shared management with the Member States.
The EAFRD will co-finance rural development expenditure in the relevant programmes of the Member States.
Expenditure covers land-related measures (such as agri-environmental payments and compensation payments to farmers in areas with natural handicaps) and non-area-related measures (such as modernisation of agricultural holdings and basic services to the rural economy and the population).
Yes Estimated error rate: 6.7% (2012: 7.9%) Control systems under investigation: Conditional effect Most errors were due to the fact that the eligibility conditions were not met: in particular, the following conditions: agri-environmental obligations (see example), special requirements for investment projects and public procurement rules.
Example: non-compliance with agri-environmental obligations A farmer in Sardinia (Italy) received compensation for the non-use of environmentally harmful plant protection products in the cultivation of artichokes.
In its on-the-spot checks, the Court found that the beneficiary had used such plant protection products 12 times during the period under review.
Therefore, the payment of aid was not considered.
Similar cases of non-compliance with agri-environmental commitments have also been identified in the Piedmont region (Italy) and in Hungary, the Netherlands, Poland and Romania.
A closer look at revenue and expenditure sectors 23 In the event of a significant number of error cases, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before the Commission had been asked for a refund.
If this information had been used to correct errors before the Commission's expenditure had been reported, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 2.0 %.
The Court's analysis of the control systems for rural development revealed the following: ο weaknesses in the controls on the conditions of aid, for example, non-recovery of non-eligible VAT amounts or the risk of double financing (in seven of the eight Member States investigated – Germany, Spain, Italy, Latvia, Malta, Romania and Slovenia; Poland was the exception); ο inadequate assessment of the plausibility of costs (in all four of the Member States examined – Italy, Latvia, Poland and Romania); ο inadequacies in the design and implementation of cross compliance controls (in all four of the Member States examined – the Czech Republic, Spain, Italy and Malta); in accordance with the cross-compliance obligations, beneficiaries must meet special conditions, such as environmental and social standards in order to qualify for aid; ο weaknesses in the control of award rules (in all three of the Member States examined – Italy, Latvia and Poland; see, for example).
For example, insufficient controls on the procurement rules by the Member State In Latvia, the paying agency was the beneficiary of EAFRD aid of EUR 2 million to finance its outsourced IT system, which was subject to public procurement rules.
The Court noted that several serious errors had occurred in the procurement process for the IT system and the subsequent data banks.
For example, instead of an open or open procedure, as provided for in the legislation, the paying agency applied a negotiation procedure.
As a result of non-compliance with the procedures, expenditure is not eligible for EU funding.
Our recommendations The Court makes the following recommendations for rural development: ο The Member States should improve the implementation of their existing administrative controls by making use of all relevant information available to the paying agencies.
In this way, most of the errors could be identified and corrected. ο Member States should ensure that the Action Plans to address the high estimated level of the rural development budget include all regions and take into account all measures, in particular investment measures, and that they take into account the Commission and the Court's audit findings. Would you like to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU rural, environmental, fisheries and health expenditure can be found in Chapter 4 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More details of the revenue and expenditure areas of regional policy, transport and energy EUR 45.5 billion Subject of our audit 24 This audit covered regional policy (which accounts for 96% of payments in this area of expenditure), mainly financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF).
The aim of regional policy is to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the European Union by reducing the disparities in development between the different regions.
Regional policy expenditure is subject to shared management by the Commission and Member States, and projects are co-financed under approved expenditure programmes.
The remaining 4 % of this audited expenditure is accounted for by transport and energy policies.
Transport and energy policy aims to provide European citizens and businesses with safe, sustainable and competitive transport and energy systems and services.
These expenditure shall be managed directly by the Commission.
Yes Most likely estimated error rate: 6.9% (2012: 6.8%) Control systems under investigation: Control systems under investigation: Conditionally effective The Court found serious errors in the award of public contracts, which represent 39% of the Court's estimated error rate.
The cumulative contract value of the 122 audited procurement procedures is estimated at EUR 4.2 billion.
Example: Unjustified free-hand contracts for additional construction work at the passenger terminal at an airport in Germany were awarded free-hand to the original contractor.
This additional work was necessary because of the work being done, the planning and implementation of the project, and not due to unforeseen circumstances.
In such cases, a free-hand award is inadmissible, so the additional work should have been advertised.
Similar cases of unjustified hands-free procurement were identified in projects in Belgium, the Czech Republic, elsewhere in Germany, Spain, Italy and Sweden.
More detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure 25 The Court's auditors are also examining whether EU state aid rules are being complied with.
Illegal State aid confers an unjustified advantage on the beneficiary bodies and therefore affects the internal market.
Errors related to State aid accounted for 17% of the estimated error rate in this area (see example).
For example, State aid for a profitable project for a small or medium-sized enterprise (SMEs) in Slovenia has been granted for research and development in the automotive industry.
However, the SME was entirely owned by large companies, and carried out its research activities exclusively for them.
As more stringent rules on public financing apply to large companies, the company was not entitled to the total funding.
Similar cases were found in Bulgaria and Hungary.
In the case of a significant number of error-related transactions, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors before a request had been made to the Commission.
If this information had been used to correct errors before the Commission's expenditure had been reported, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 3,9 %.
The Court's auditors also noted that in 2013 financial instruments continued to receive reduced quotas for disbursements to final beneficiaries.
The funds concerned will support companies or urban development projects through equity investments, loans or guarantees.
The funds will be allocated when their legal structure has been established and will be used to support projects.
A total of 940 financial instruments have been set up in 25 Member States with a budget of around EUR 12.6 billion.
Our recommendations The Court recommends that the Commission: ο The Commission should require the Member States to ‐ explicitly confirm the effectiveness of the primary controls carried out by the managing authority and the certifying authority in their administrative declarations. ο The Commission should carry out a thorough evaluation of the continuing problem of primary controls carried out by authorities in Member States during the 2007-2013 programming period, as required by the Financial Regulation. ο The Commission should analyse the reasons for the frequency of infringements of EU state aid rules. ο The Commission should reduce the continuing delays in the payment of EU funds through financial instruments. ο Would you like to know more?
The Court's full information on the audit of EU expenditure on regional policy, transport and energy can be found in Chapter 5 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
Further analysis of the income and expenditure sectors of employment and social affairs 16.2 billion euros Subject matter of our review 26 The review covered the expenditure area of employment and social affairs, which forms part of the EU's cohesion policy.
The main objectives of spending in this area are to combat unemployment, to develop human resources and to promote integration into the labour market.
Employment and social policy is mainly implemented through the European Social Fund (ESF): 98% of the payments made in 2013 in this area of expenditure were to the detriment of the Fund.
The ESF supports investment in human capital in the form of training and other employment measures.
In a private school in Portugal, the full salary of the school director was charged to the EU project, although he had other tasks to perform.
Furthermore, the ceiling for the cofinancing of salaries has not been respected.
The Court also found similar findings in projects in Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
In the event of a significant number of errors, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before the Commission had been requested to obtain it.
If this information had been used to correct errors before the Commission's expenditure had been reported, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 1.8%.
Detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure sectors 27 On the recommendation of the Court and with the aim of reducing the likelihood of errors and the administrative burden on the promoters, the application of lump sums and flat rates was extended in 2009 instead of the reimbursement of ‘actual costs'.
In its 2013 audit, the Court did not detect quantifiable errors in relation to the application of lump sums and lump sums.
This suggests that projects whose costs are reported using such payment options are less error-ridden.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission the following: ο The Commission should invite Member States to step up controls on procurement rules, non-project-related costs, or projects without EU added value. ο The Commission should ensure that Member States address the problem that, for EU projects, staff costs are claimed at higher rates than for projects financed by national funds. ο The Commission should ensure that Member States have taken into account all the simplification options provided by the regulations for the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 period. Do you want to know more?
Full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure on employment and social affairs can be found in Chapter 6 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the 2013 budget.
28 This expenditure covers expenditure on external relations, development and humanitarian assistance, and measures for candidate and candidate countries.
Development projects are spread across more than 150 countries around the world and implementation bodies vary considerably in size and experience.
The support for projects from EU funds is conditional on compliance with conditions set out in specific financing agreements, as well as with other provisions, for example with regard to tendering and procurement procedures.
Expenditure is managed either directly by the Commission's Directorates-General – by the Commission's central services in Brussels or the EU delegations in the recipient countries – or jointly with international organisations.
Yes Estimated error rate: 2.6% (2012: 3.3%) Control systems under investigation: Estimated effectiveness Most errors related to non-eligible expenditure incurred at the level of the final beneficiaries, such as expenditure incurred outside the eligibility period, the inclusion of non-eligible expenditure in the expenditure items of the project (e.g. VAT, non-eligible personnel costs or overheads) and to non-eligible supporting expenditure.
The Commission validated pre-accession expenditure for a total of EUR 150 million, although it was not confirmed by evidence that the expenditure was incurred and eligible.
The validated amounts were based on Commission estimates rather than on incurred, paid and accepted costs, backed up by relevant evidence.
After the Court found this systematic error, the Commission corrected the transactions in the accounts in question.
Example: Unpaid expenditure The Commission signed an agreement of 9.5 million euros with the United Nations Development Programme to promote social development in Moldova.
In 2013, the Commission accepted contracts worth EUR 1.8 million for reimbursement for which no underlying expenditure had yet been incurred.
A closer look at revenue and expenditure areas 29 Commission Directorate-General EuropeAid manages the bulk of EU expenditure in the area of the external action of the budget.
The EuropeAid systems examined are assessed as conditionally effective.
In May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an action plan to address the main identified shortcomings.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission that the Commission ensure that the instructions to staff indicate that the final management of expenditure should be based on expenditure actually incurred and should not be based on own estimates.
The Commission has already agreed to an amendment to its final implementation procedure. Would you like to know more?
The full information on the Court's audit of the external relations, external assistance and enlargement expenditure can be found in Chapter 7 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
30 The main component of this expenditure area is research and innovation projects, which, in 2013, accounted for €7.7 billion in payments.
The other internal policies concern spending on a number of policy objectives, including education and culture, security, migration, and addressing the consequences of the financial crisis.
Most of the expenditure is managed directly by the Commission.
Yes Estimated error rate: 4.6% (2012: 3.9%) Control systems under investigation: Ineffective with most payments in this area of expenditure, the Commission reimburses the costs claimed by recipients in project cost statements.
Errors arise when beneficiaries report ineligible costs which are not detected by the control systems prior to reimbursement by the Commission.
35 % of the estimated error rate is due to incorrectly calculated or ineligible personnel costs.
For example, the estimated and not the actual personnel costs and working hours, which were not used for the project, are claimed.
Apart from non-compliance with expenditure rules, the reimbursement of non-eligible costs is also hampered by the successful implementation of policy objectives, thus limiting the added value of EU support (see example).
Example: Ineligible expenditure reduces EU added value The EU provides funding to ensure efficient and effective controls at EU external borders.
The Court examined a project in Spain consisting in the purchase of four helicopters, which were to be used 75% for the surveillance and control of the external borders.
However, the Court found that only 25% of the hours of operations of the helicopters accounted for that purpose.
As a result, the EU should have paid a mere 25%, not the 75% actually taken over, of the costs of the helicopters.
More detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure 31 In the framework of the control system for research expenditure, the Commission monitors progress reports and cost statements on funded projects before payments are made.
The Court noted that the Commission did not always apply the procedures in a uniform manner, which could impair the efficiency of the programmes and increase the administrative burden on the beneficiaries.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission the following: ο The Commission should provide the beneficiaries and the authorities in the Member States with timely, coherent and clear guidance on eligibility rules and control rules for the new research programmes in the period 2014-2020 (Horizon 2020) and other internal policies. ο The Commission should make its control activities more risk orientated by focusing on high risk beneficiaries (e.g. less experienced bodies) and reducing the burden of control on less-risk beneficiaries.
Want to know more?
The Court's complete information on the Court's audit of EU research and other internal policies can be found in Chapter 8 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
Details of revenue and expenditure sectors 32 Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 10.6 billion euros Subject of our audit Administrative expenditure and related expenditure includes expenditure of the institutions and other institutions of the EU.
These are the Commission, Parliament, the European External Action Service (EEAS), the European Council and the Council of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the Data Protection Supervisor.
Expenditure on staff (maintained salaries, allowances, pensions) accounts for 60 % of the expenditure; expenditure on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology accounts for the remainder of the expenditure.
The Court's audit results at the European Union agencies and other decentralised bodies are dealt with in special annual reports, which are published separately, including a summary.
No Estimated error rate: 1.0% (2012: 0.0 %) Investigated control systems: Effectively The investigation of most control systems showed no serious deficiencies.
However, the Court notes that the Commission and the EEAS have repeatedly made mistakes in the payment of salaries and allowances, and that the procurement procedures of the EU Delegations (which are subject to the EEAS) are also weak.
Our recommendations The Court recommends the following: ο The Commission and the EEAS should take further steps to ensure that the parts of the staff files are up-to-date with an impact on the payment of salaries and allowances. ο The EEAS should support and guide the EU delegations in terms of procurement procedures.
Full information on the Court's audit of administrative expenditure and related expenditure can be found in Chapter 9 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the 2013 budget.
In the context of the EDF, the European Union provides resources for development cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and the overseas countries and territories (OCT) States (OCTs).
It also aims to promote sustainable development and the integration of the ACP States and OCTs into the global economy.
The EDFs are funded by the Member States and are subject to their own financial regulation and are managed by the European Commission outside the EU's general budget.
The environment in which external assistance financed by the EDF is implemented is at high risk, in particular by the fact that the activities are geographically scattered and that the partner countries do not have sufficient institutional and administrative capacity.
Our findings Reliability of EDF accounting: EDF annual accounts 2013 constitute the EDF's asset and financial situation, the results of its operations, its cash flows and the changes in the net assets as a whole, and constitute EDF receipts, to a substantial extent, with errors?
No Control systems investigated: Does EDF commitments have a significant impact on errors?
Yes Estimated error rate: 3.4% (2012: 3.0%) Failure to comply with procurement rules was the cause of around half of the estimated error rate (see example).
Another significant source of error is the lack of evidence to support expenditure.
Example: non-compliance with the procurement rules by the beneficiary The Court examined the tender for IT equipment for a business information centre, financed by a micro and small business support programme.
The examination showed that the contract was not awarded to the tenderer with the lowest price offer, although the lowest price was the award criterion.
The error was not detected by the auditor who conducted the programme in accordance with the relevant framework contract with the Commission in the audit of the accounts.
A closer look at the revenue and expenditure sectors 34 A budget allocation from the EDF will also be granted where payments are directly entered in the budget of a developing country, provided that specific conditions are met.
The Court noted errors in transactions relating to budget support where the fulfilment of the conditions had been misassessed and where the wrong exchange rate was applied to the conversion of the payment into the local currency.
The Commission's Directorate-General for EuropeAid manages not only the bulk of the expenditure on external assistance from the EU budget but also almost all expenditures effected under the European Development Fund (EDF).
EuropeAid's systems under investigation are considered to be sufficiently effective.
However, in May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an action plan to address the main shortcomings identified.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission that: ο The Commission should recover interest on pre-financing. ο The Commission should review the quantification of the benefits of controls carried out. ο The Commission should report on progress in implementing the action plan to remedy deficiencies in the control system. ο The Commission should report on progress in implementing the action plan.
The full information on the Court's audit of the European Development Funds can be found in the annual report on the activities of the eighth, ninth and tenth European Development Funds (EDFs) for the financial year 2013.
Background information 35 The audit approach at a glance The Court's audit opinions in the context of the Statement of Assurance are based on objective evidence obtained, in particular through audit procedures conducted in accordance with international audit principles.
The EU budget is complex.
The Commission's Directorates-General annually arrange hundreds of thousands of entries based on data from many different sources (including the Member States).
The Court considers that, in order to determine whether the underlying underlying transactions are in fact in fact and correctly recorded, and in order to determine whether they represent the financial situation in an appropriate way, it is necessary to determine whether the underlying transactions are in fact in fact recorded and recorded in the financial statements. The Court considers that, in the light of the statistical methods used, sampling of transactions is to be used by the Court's auditors as the basis for in-depth audits.
1 Payments recorded as expenditure are intermediate payments, final payments, and advances invoiced.
The implementation of the EU budget will provide millions of payments to beneficiaries within the EU and the rest of the world.
Most of these expenditures are managed by the Member States.
In order to obtain the necessary evidence, the Court conducts direct audits of revenue and expenditure and assesses the systems by which the payments are processed and controlled.
Further information on the audit process with regard to the establishment of the Statement of Assurance can be found in Annex 1.1 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
Background information 37 The European Court of Auditors and its work The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the independent audit body of the European Union, based in Luxembourg.
It employs around 900 staff from all EU nationalities, made up of auditors and staff in horizontal services.
Since its establishment in 1977, it has raised awareness of the importance of EU financial management and has contributed to its improvement.
The Court's audit reports and opinions are an important link in the EU's accountability chain.
Our results are used to hold the authorities responsible for the EU's financial management accountable, in particular in the discharge procedure.
This is mainly the Commission, but it also affects the other EU institutions, bodies and agencies.
Member States also play an important role in shared management.
Our main tasks are: ο audits of accounting and compliance audits, mainly with regard to the Statement of Assurance; ο accounting audits on subjects selected so that, with our work, we can achieve the greatest possible effect; ο opinions on legislation concerning budgetary management and other important issues.
We strive to use our resources to strike a balance between our various fields of activity in order to achieve sound results and to cover the different areas of the EU budget in an appropriate way.
Background information 38 Our findings We present the following results: ο Annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds; the annual reports mainly include the audit opinions issued under the statement of assurance and the audit results and will be published annually in November; ο Special annual reports on the audit opinions issued by the various EU agencies and agencies; 53 reports to be published in 2014; ο Special reports on selected audit topics published over the year; these mainly include economic audits; approximately 25 reports to be published in 2014; ο Opinions to be published by the European Parliament and the Council in the adoption of EU legislation with significant implications for financial management; ο Six opinions to be published in 2014; ο Landscape analyses on selected areas of EU policy in which the major challenges and long-term trends will be analysed; ο Annual activity report, information and explanations on our activities in the year under review.
Through our work, we contribute to raising awareness about EU financial management and to increasing transparency in this area, by providing a guarantee of financial management and by making recommendations for further improvements.
This is in the interests of the citizens of the European Union.
Information on the Court's audits of the agencies and other decentralised bodies of the European Union can be found on the specific annual reports on the financial year 2013, available on the Court's website.
The European Court of Auditors is the independent external audit body of the EU - custodians of EU finances In its annual reports on the EU budget and the European Development Funds, the Court gives an audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
This briefing provides an overview of the main findings and conclusions.
The full text of the reports is available on the Court's website and will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
2 INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency") based in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1.
The main task of the Agency is to assist national regulatory authorities to carry out the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and to coordinate, where necessary, the actions of those authorities.
Under the Regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT Regulation)2, the Agency, together with the national regulatory authorities, shall have additional tasks with regard to the monitoring of the wholesale European energy market3.
With regard to the financial year 2011, the period from 8 March to 31 December 2011 was therefore examined.
EXHIBITIONS TO THE RELIABILITY DECLARATION 3. The audit approach of the the Court of Auditors'analytical audit procedures,the direct audit of operations and an evaluation of key controls of the Agency's monitoring and control systems.
1 2 3 OJ L 347, 31.12.1987, p.
Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011, OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p.
For the purpose of information, the Annex provides a summary of the Agency's responsibilities and activities.
3 RELIABILITY DECLARATION 4. In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court has examined the Agency's annual accounts4 consisting of the "annual accounts"5 and the "annual accounts"6 for the financial year ending 31 December 2011 and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying that account.
Management responsibility 5. Initsfunctionasasinstructionsmanaging director,the budgetin revenue and expenditurein accordance with the Agency's financial regulation,as director andin the framework of the appropriations approved7.
The Director shall be responsible for the establishment8 of the organisational structure and of the internal management and control systems and procedures necessary to enable the establishment of a financial statement9, which shall be free of material misrepresentations, intended or unintended, 4 5 6 7 8 9 The annual accounts shall be accompanied by a report on the financial management and management of the financial year in question, which shall include supplementary information on the financial management and management of the financial year in question.
The annual accounts comprise the balance sheet and the balance sheet of the economic result, the cash flow table, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the main accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
The relevant rules for the accounting and accounting of the agencies shall be those set out in Chapters 1 and 2 of Title VII of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002, as last amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2008 (OJ L 298, 29.8.2008, p.
ADB001375EN04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
6.The responsibility of the auditor to provide the European Parliament and the Council10 with a statement of assurance on the reliability of the Agency's accounts and on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying it.
7. The Courthas carried out its audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing as well as the professional conduct requirements of the IFAC and the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions of the INTOSAI.
These standards require the Court to plan and carry out the audit in such a way as to obtain sufficient assurance as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free of material misrepresentations and whether the underlying transactions are lawful and proper.
8.An audit shall include the execution of auditacts in order to obtain audit evidence of the value estimates and other information contained in the financial statements and of the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying them.
The selection of audit acts is at the discretion of the examiner. This includes the assessment of the risks of material - intended or unintentional - misrepresentations at the conclusion and of material - intended or unintentional - violations of the European Union legislation in the underlying transactions.
In assessing these risks, the auditor shall take into account the internal control system relevant to the preparation and proper overall presentation of the financial statements and the 5 monitoring and control systems established to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in order to plan audit actions that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit shall also include an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting methods used and of the representativeness of the estimated accounting values and an assessment of the overall presentation of the financial statements.
9.The Court takes the view that the certificates obtained are sufficient and suitable to serve as the basis for the following audit opinions.
10.According to the Court's assessment, the Agency's annual accounts11, as at 31 December 2011, constitute its assets and financial position as well as the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year ending on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer12, in all essential respects.
11 12 The final annual accounts were drawn up on 19 June 2012 and were received by the Court on 2 July 2012.
The final annual accounts consolidated with the Commission's annual accounts shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 15 November of the following year.
The annual accounts are available at the following addresses: http://eca.europa.eu or http://ww.acer.europa.eu/.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer are based on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or on the International Accounting Standards (IAS) or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS) in the event of transactions for which there are no IPSAS standards.
In addition, the rate of payments was low, compared to commitments of 41 % for Titles II and III.
The high level of unused appropriations and transfers of appropriations and the low payment rate indicate shortcomings in the planning and implementation of the budget and constitute a breach of the budgetary principle of annuality.
OTHER COMMENTS 14.The transparency of recruitment procedures needs to be improved.
For example, the vacancy notices did not specify the maximum number of candidates to be included in a reserve list, nor did they contain any appeals.
7 written and oral exams and their respective weights are not prepared prior to the examination of applications.
15.In 2011, the Agency paid daily allowances of EUR 10 839 to seconded experts who were nationals of the country in which the Agency is based.
This payment is contrary to the rules adopted by the Agency's Management Board for the secondment of national experts, according to which only temporary staff who are not nationals of the Member State in which they are employed are entitled to daily allowances.
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Louis GALEA, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 5 September 2012.
For the Court of Auditors Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001375EN04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
8 Annex Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Ljubljana) Union competence under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) Responsibilities of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Commission Regulation (EU) No 838/2010; Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Responsibilities and activities The European Parliament and the Council shall, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, adopt the measures for the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
The Union's energy policy, in a spirit of solidarity between Member States in the context of the achievement or functioning of the internal market and taking into account the need to preserve and improve the environment, pursues the following objectives: (a) to ensure the functioning of the energy market; (b) to ensure the security of energy supply in the Union; (c) to promote energy efficiency and savings, and to develop new and renewable energy sources; and (d) to promote the interconnection of energy networks.
The European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, shall adopt the measures necessary to achieve the objectives.
These measures shall be adopted after consultation of the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
Objectives The Agency's objective is to assist national regulatory authorities to perform the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and, where necessary, to coordinate their actions.
Tasks - supplementing and coordinating the work of national regulatory authorities - participating in the drafting of rules for European networks - in certain circumstances of binding individual decisions on the modalities of access and operational security of cross-border infrastructures, - advising the European institutions on energy-related issues, - monitoring and reporting of energy market developments, - drawing up a proposal addressed to the Commission on the annual compensation amount for cross-border infrastructures in the framework of the ITC mechanism, - cooperation with national regulatory authorities, ESMA, the competent financial authorities of the Member States and, where appropriate, national competition authorities for the monitoring of wholesale energy markets, - assessing the functioning and transparency of different categories of markets and different types of trade, - issuing recommendations to the Commission in relation to market rules, records of transactions, trading orders, standards and procedures to improve the integrity of the market and the functioning of the internal market.
The Board of Directors Composition: The Board has two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council.
Each member shall have an alternate.
Tasks: The Management Board shall adopt the Agency's annual work programme, adopt its budget and monitor its implementation.
Director Management structure The Director will be appointed following a favourable opinion of the Regulatory Council on the basis of ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
Regulatory Board Composition: The Board shall be composed of a senior representative of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a non-voting representative of the Commission.
Each member shall have an alternate appointed by the national regulatory authority of each Member State.
Tasks: - The Board of Regulators shall submit to the Director opinions on opinions, recommendations and decisions the adoption of which is envisaged. - It shall lead the Director in the performance of his duties. - It shall give the Management Board an opinion on the candidate to be appointed Director. - It shall approve the Agency's work programme.
External control Court of Auditors.
Parliament discharge authority on the recommendation of the Council.
The Exposition of the Exposition of the Activities of the Agency and of the Implementation of the Activities of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Activities of the Activities of the Agency and of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Activities of the Implementation of the Activities of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Activities of the Agency and of the Implementation of the Activities of the Implementation of the Activities of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Agency's Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Exposition of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Exposition of the Operational Programme of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Programme of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Operational Activities of the Implementation of the Programme of the Programme of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Programme of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Programme of the Activities of the Implementation of the Implementation of the Activities of the Implementation of the Operational of the Implementation
Source: Agency information. ADB001375EN04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
ACER - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ACER - Agence de coopération des régulateurs de l'énergie AGENCY REPLY 13. In the first year of its operation, ACER had to hire a large part of its staff, which involved problems and led to job vacancies being filled late; this was clearly reflected in the Agency's budget utilization rate.
This also affected the estimated procurement needs and resulted in the procurement procedures focusing on the end of the year, in order to fulfil the legal and budgetary commitments made, it was necessary to carry out large carry-overs.
Since most of the posts were filled at the beginning of 2012, ACER is now in a much better position to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it and to carry out the related budget.
14. ACER takes note of the legitimacy of the Court's observations and has already taken corrective action.
15. ACER takes note of the justification of the provisional finding and has already stopped the daily allowance payments to Slovenian ANS.
2 INTRODUCTION 1. The Energy Regulators' Cooperation Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency", also called "ACER"), based in Ljubljana, was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1.
Under the Regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT Regulation)2, the Agency and national regulatory authorities have been entrusted with additional tasks with the monitoring of the wholesale European energy market3.
EXHIBITIONS TO THE DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY 2. The audit approach of the the European Court of Auditors' audit procedures, the direct audit of transactions and an evaluation of key controls of the Agency's monitoring and control systems.
DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY 3. In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court has examined the following:
The Agency shall play an important role in the monitoring of wholesale energy markets in Europe in accordance with the provisions of the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2013 establishing the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
For information purposes, Annex II summarises the Agency's responsibilities and activities.
Management Responsibility 4. Management Responsibility for the preparation and proper presentation of the Agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions6:(a) Management Responsibility for the annual accounts of the Agency includes the design, establishment and maintenance of an internal control system as necessary for the preparation and proper overall presentation of annual accounts, free from material, intended or unintended misrepresentations, the selection and application of suitable accounting methods based on accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer7 and the 4 5 6 7 The annual accounts comprise the financial statement and the overview of the economic result, the cash flow table, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the main accounting methods and other explanatory notes.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer are based on International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or, where applicable, on International Accounting Standards (IAS)/International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013.
The Director shall approve the annual accounts of the Agency after the Agency's accounting officer has drawn up it on the basis of all the information available and has drawn up an accompanying note to the annual accounts stating, inter alia, that he has reasonable assurances that the annual accounts give a true and true view of the Agency's financial situation in all essential respects. (b) The management's responsibility for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for compliance with the principle of sound financial management requires the design, establishment and maintenance of an effective and efficient internal control system, including appropriate supervision and appropriate measures to prevent irregularities and fraud, as well as, where applicable, legal steps to recover funds unduly paid or unlawfully used.
The Auditor's responsibility 5. The Court's responsibility to make a statement to the European Parliament and to the Council8 on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
According to these standards, the Court is required to plan and carry out the audit in such a way as to obtain sufficient certainty as to whether the ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
The selection of the audit proceedings is at the discretion of the examiner.
When assessing these risks, the auditor shall take into account all internal controls relevant to the preparation and adequate overall presentation of the accounts and the monitoring and control systems established to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and shall plan audit acts appropriate in the circumstances.
Audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts 8.Determining the Court's annual accounts of the Agencyas at 31 December 2013and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ending that reference date in accordance with its financial rules and with the accounting officer of the ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
6 The Commission's annual report on the impact of the Commission's annual report on the implementation of the budget's implementation of the budget of the budget on the Commission's budget for the financial year for the financial year 2000 on the budget for the financial year's implementation for the financial year 2000 (COM(2005) 646 final). The Commission's annual report on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2000 (COM(2005) 6 final) for the financial year 2000 (COM(2005) 6 final) (COM(2005) 6 final).
10.The following comments do not call into question the Court's rulings.
COMMENTS ON BUDGET BUDGET BUDGET 11.The Agency has carried over EUR 1.9 million or 56% of the total committed appropriations under Title II (Buildings of the Agency and associated costs), mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
This is an operational, multiannual activity which would have been terminated under Title III of the budget.
12.In addition, the Agency has transferred EUR 3.1 million and 91 % of the total committed under Title III, also in connection with the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
The exceptionally high transfer rate of Title III is primarily due to an increase of an additional EUR 3 million by means of an amending budget approved on 31 October 2013.
OTHER COMMENTS 13.At the end of the year the Agency had EUR 5.5 million in cash, including around 3 million from the late adopted ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 7 Amending budget (see point 12).
Nevertheless, average cash balances during the year were considerably higher than the operational needs justifyed.
CONTINUE PROMOTION OF COMMENTS FROM THE PRESENT YEARS 14.Annex I provides an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years. This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Milan Martin CVIKL, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 8 July 2014.
For the Court of Auditors, Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001936EN04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE REFERENCES REFERRED TO IN ANNEX I TO THE PREVIOUS YEARS THE Court's observations State of the corrective measure (completed/in progress/outstanding/s.o.) 2011 The high level of unused funds and the carry-overs made and the low level of payment are an indication of the shortcomings in budget planning and implementation and are an infringement of the budgetary principle of annuality.
Completed 2011 Transparency of recruitment procedures requires improvement.
Furthermore, questions for the written and oral examinations and their respective weighting were not prepared before the examination of the applications.
Completed 2012 In order to cover higher school fees, the Agency grants a special allowance to staff whose children attend primary or secondary schools in addition to the education allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations1.
In 2012, the extra allowances amounted to a total of around EUR 23 000.
They are not covered by the Staff Regulations and are therefore not covered by the Staff Regulations.
Completed ADB001936EN04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 2 year Court observations Progress of the corrective measure (completed/in progress/outgoing/outgoing/outstanding) 2012 The Agency has carried over to the following year commitments of EUR 1.7 million of the Agency's budget of Title II (buildings of the Agency and ancillary costs) (this corresponds to 81 % of the total budget committed under Title II) to the following year.
These transfers are mainly linked to the ongoing implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
As these implementing measures are part of the operational activities of the Agency, they would have been included in the budget under Title III.
Completed 2012 In 2012, the Agency carried out 20 transfers within the budget of around EUR 1 million, involving 43 budget lines.
Completed 2012 At the end of the year, the Agency had EUR 4.2 million in cash, including the 2011 budget surplus of EUR 1.6 million, resulting from an excessive budget call in 2011, the amount of which was recovered by the Commission in January 2013.
2012 The recruitment procedures examined showed weaknesses with regard to transparency and equal treatment of candidates: The questions for the oral and written examinations were not identified before the examination of the applications.
The conditions for admission to the written and oral examinations and for the inclusion in the list of suitable candidates were not sufficiently precise and insufficient measures were taken to ensure the anonymity of candidates participating in the written examinations.
Article 3 of Annex VII to the Staff Regulations provides for double the basic allowance of EUR 252.81 (i.e. EUR 505.62).
ADB001936EN04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 ANNEX II Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Ljubljana) Union competence under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) Responsibilities of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Commission Regulation (EU) No 838/2010; Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Responsibilities and activities The European Parliament and the Council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, shall adopt measures for the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
A leader structure on incentives and on a common methodology for assessing higher risks for investments in electricity and gas transmission infrastructure.
Board of Directors Composition The Board of Directors consists of two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council.
Tasks The Management Board shall adopt the Agency's annual work programme and adopt its budget.
It shall ensure that the Agency fulfils its mandate and fulfils the tasks assigned to it in accordance with the Agency Regulation.
Director The Director shall be appointed by the Management Board, following a favourable opinion of the Regulatory Council, on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the Commission.
Composition of the Regulatory Council The Regulatory Council is composed of a senior representative of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a non-voting representative of the Commission.
Each Member shall have an alternate appointed by the national regulatory authority of each Member State.
Functions – The Board of Regulators shall submit opinions to the Director on opinions, recommendations and decisions the adoption of which is envisaged. – The Board shall direct the Director in the performance of his/her duties. − The Board shall issue an opinion on the candidate to be appointed Director. − It shall approve the Agency's work programme.
External control European Court of Auditors.
Budget 2013 (2012) EUR 11.9 (7.2) million.Staff on 31 December 2013 (2012) Scheduled posts: 49 (43), of which: 49 (42) on 31 December.
Other staff: 20 (14). Total staff: 69 (57), of which: 41 (34), – administrative activities: 28 (23). – framework guideline (gas: framework guideline on rules for harmonised transmission charge structures); organisation of public consultations in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 including workshops; – network codes (a) seven reasoned opinions on network codes (electricity: network code for longer-term capacity allocation, system operation code, network code for operational planning, network code for load-frequency control and reserves, network code for the customer connection; gas: network code for compensation and network code for interoperability and data exchange); (b) four qualified majority recommendations on network codes (all for electricity: network code for connection conditions for all power stations, network code for capacity allocation and congestion management; network code for operational safety and network code for operational planning); 2 The Agency for 2013 available (notifications for 2012) Products and services in the year 2013 ADB0006-2014-R0006-R0006-ROP-2014.
Source: Annex provided by the Agency.
ACER - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ANSWER TO AGENCY 11. As the Court noted, the Agency has already corrected the shortfall in later commitment appropriations related to the implementation of REMIT, which has been included in the operational budget lines under Title III.
12. As already acknowledged by the auditors, the high transfer rate was due to delays in the implementation of REMIT.
This delay was due to the fact that DG ENER only approved the transfer of the necessary additional funds in October 2013 and that the funds were received by the Agency at the beginning of November 2013.
However, the Agency has succeeded in successfully completing all the procurement procedures planned in connection with the implementation of REMIT by December 2013 and the expenditure in this area will be incurred in 2014.
13. The balance of the accounts at the end of the year was the amount of EUR 3 million received late in the year due to a budgetary adjustment, the remainder to cover all legal obligations, in particular in the context of REMIT, for which commitments were made towards the end of 2013.
The cash forecast tool introduced in 2014 will enable better cash management in the future. ACER - DE
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/17 REPORT on the Agency's 2015 annual accounts for the cooperation of energy regulators, together with the Agency's response (2016/C 449/02) INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also located in Ljubljana, was created by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1).
The Agency's main task is to assist national regulatory authorities to fulfil the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and to coordinate, to the extent necessary, the measures taken by these authorities.
Under the Regulation on the Integrity and Transparency of the Energy Wholesale Trade Market (REMIT Regulation) (2), the Agency, as well as the national regulatory authorities, has been entrusted with the additional tasks of monitoring the European Energy Wholesale Trade Market.
2. The table contains the most important figures for the Agency (3).
Table Main figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) Number of staff at 31 December (1) (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
THE CURRENCY OF CURRENCY 3. The Court's approach includes analytical testing procedures, direct testing procedures, and an assessment of key controls of the Agency's monitoring and control systems.
2014 10,9 72 2015 11,3 80 COLLECTION OF RELIABILITY 4. Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) the Court of Auditors has clarified the following: a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(4) and the financial implementation reports (5) for the financial year ending 31 December 2015, b) the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts.
Management responsibility 5. Management is responsible for the establishment and proper overall presentation of the Agency's annual accounts as well as for the legality and regularity of the underlying assets (6): (1) OJ No.
Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council
In this, the Agency will play an important role in the monitoring of the energy trade markets in Europe.
(3) For more information on the Agency's facilities and activities, please visit its website www.acer.europa.eu.
6. Articles 39 and 50 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013 (OJ L 39, 13.8.2013, p.
C 449/18 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 EN a) Management's responsibility for the Agency's annual accounts includes the design, establishment and maintenance of an internal control system, as required for the establishment and appropriate presentation of annual accounts, which are free of material and unintended misrepresentations, the selection and application of appropriate accounting methods based on the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer(7), as well as the identification of appropriate accounting values, which are reasonable among the circumstances. 1.12.2016 EN a) Management's responsibility for the Agency's annual accounts includes the establishment, establishment and maintenance of an internal control system, as necessary for the establishment and appropriate presentation of annual accounts, free from material and unintended misrepresentations.
The Director shall approve the Agency's annual accounts after the Agency's accounting officer has drawn up them on the basis of all the available information and has drawn up a note accompanying the Agency's annual accounts on the basis of the Agency's annual accounts, stating, among other things, that the Agency's financial situation is a fair and fair basis for the financial situation, in all essential respects, that the annual accounts give in all essential respects an accurate picture of the Agency's financial situation. b) The responsibility of the Agency's management, including appropriate supervision and measures to prevent irregularities and fraud, and, where appropriate, legal measures for the recovery of funds that have been illegally paid or illegally used.
The Court's responsibility 6. The Court's task is to provide, on the basis of its task, to the European Parliament and the Council (8) an explanation of the eligibility of the accounts and the legality and order of the underlying accounts.
According to these standards, the Court is required to plan and implement the audit in such a way that sufficient certainty is obtained whether the Agency's annual accounts are free of material false representations and the underlying accounts are legal and orderly. 7. A test includes the execution of test actions, in order to obtain audit evidences for the claims and other information contained in the annual accounts, as well as for the legality and orderliness of the underlying accounts.
Article 208(4) of the European Financial Regulation (9), the Court, in drawing up this report and the declaration of indemnity, took into account the work of the independent external expert in the Agency's annual accounts.
8. The Court considers that the evidence obtained is sufficient and sufficient to serve as the basis for its determination of determination.
9. According to the Court, the Agency's annual accounts as at 31 December 2015 and the results of its accounts and cash flows, as at the end of the year of the Agency's financial regulation and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer in all material matters, are all in accordance with the proper financial rules of the Agency's annual accounts as at 31 December 2015.
11.
(7) (8) (9) The following observations do not call into question the Court's rulings.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission accounting officer are based on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or, where applicable, on International Accounting Standards (IAS)/International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013.
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/19 COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 12. The Agency transferred EUR 1,36 million or 59% of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2014: EUR 1,57 million or 62%).
These transfers were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation (1.1 million euros), a complex multi-annual operational activity in relation to the integrity and transparency of the energy wholesale market.
In addition, the Agency transferred EUR 0.79 million, or 35% (2014: EUR 0.98 million or 41%) of the appropriations committed under Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following financial year. These transfers mainly concerned studies and services that were not yet provided in 2015.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 13. Annex gives an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Baudilio TOM, MUGURUZA, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 13 September 2016.
For the Court of Auditors of the European Communities, Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President
C 449/20 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 DE Court of Auditors comment The Agency carried EUR 1.57 million and 62 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2013: EUR 3.1 million and 91%).
These transfers were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation, a complex multi-annual operational activity, to which the implementing regulation was only adopted on 17 December 2014 (1).
The Agency also transferred EUR 0.98 million and 41% (2013: EUR 1.9 million and 56% respectively) of the appropriations committed under Title II (Administrative expenditure) to the following financial year. These transfers concerned mainly studies for the implementation of the REMIT Regulation and the annual appropriations for the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
In October 2013, the Agency received an additional EUR 3 million for the implementation of the REMIT Regulation by means of an amending budget, which it transferred to 2014.
However, the REMIT framework will only apply as of October 2015 in accordance with the implementing regulation.
Part of the funding was used in 2014 to prepare the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
At the end of 2014, the Agency made two pre-financing payments of EUR 1.56 million for the sale of the services in the context of the REMIT Regulation, to be made in the years 2015-2017, thus avoiding automatic repayment of the unused funds to the Commission(2).
Although the agency can thereby finance its future REMIT-related activities, this approach is in contradiction with the budgetary principle of agency accountability.
It is intended that a European school is to be established in Slovenia in the agreement between the Agency and the Slovenian Government, but this has still not happened more than four years after the agreement was concluded.
Annual Report 2014 ANNEX Follow-up of comments from previous years Report on the adoption of the correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/in progress) n.e.c. 2014 2014 n.e.c. (1) (2) Commission implementing Regulation (EU) No 1348/2014 (OJ No L 347, 23.12.2014, p.
Under Article 13 of the EU Financial Regulation, the expenditure will only be transferred to the next financial year.
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/21 AGENCY REPLY 13. The Agency is aware of the AGENCY's commitment at the end of the year due to the commitment of the REMIT project's long-term implementation.
In view of the continuing uncertainty about the annual budget allocation to the agency, the principle of annuality is difficult to reconcile with the inevitable multi-annual nature of the REMIT project.
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/25 REPORT on the Agency's 2016 annual accounts for the cooperation of energy regulators, together with the Agency's response (2017/C 417/02) INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Ljubljana, was created by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1).
The main task of the Agency is to assist the national regulatory authorities in carrying out the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and to coordinate the actions of those authorities to the extent necessary.
Table Main figures on the Agency Budget (million euro) Staff numbers on 31 December (1) (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Household data published in OJ.
2015 11.3 80 2016 15.9 103 PRINCIPLE 4. We have a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(4) and the budget implementation reports (5), for the financial year ending 31 December 2016, and (1) OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1.
(2) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
(3) Further information on the Agency's conditions and activities can be found on its website www.acer.europa.eu. (4) The annual financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets and a summary of the financial statements and other information.
(5) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
EN C 417/26 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 b) the legality and regularity of the accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In our opinion, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2016 constitute the Agency's annual and financial position as at 31 December 2016, the results of its accounts and its cash flows, as well as the changes in its net accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2016 in compliance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, are, as a whole, appropriate for all of the essential issues.
Payments Payments in respect of payments under the accounts in respect of the accounts in respect of the accounts and the accounts in respect of payments under the accounts in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2016 are in all of the essential respects legal and orderly and in respect of the accounts in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2016.
Responsibility of the management and for the supervision of responsible persons 8. Comm.§ Articles 310 to 325 TFEU and the financial regulations of the agency the management is responsible for the establishment and general presentation of the financial statements on the basis of internationally recognized accounting principles for the public sector as well as for the legality and regularity of the underlying statements.
This responsibility includes the design, creation and maintenance of internal control structures, as necessary for the preparation and presentation of an annual financial statements, which is free of the essential intended and unintended misrepresentations.
The management of the agency carries the final responsibility for the legality and the regularity of the management of the accounts.
10. The responsible for the monitoring are responsible for the supervision of the institution's accounting process.
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/27 Responsibilities of the President of the European Union for the preparation of the annual accounts and the underlying annual accounts 11. Our aims are to obtain sufficient certainty as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free of material misrepresentations and whether the underlying statements are correct and regular, as well as to the European Parliament and the Council or other responsible discharges, on the basis of our examination, to submit an explanation on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying statements.
False representations and understandings can be intended or unintended and will be considered essential if they can be expected to be individually or collectively expected to influence the economic choices made by users on the basis of this annual accounts.
12. A trial involves the execution of the trial to obtain proof of trial for the values and other information contained in the annual accounts and for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. The choice of the trial is in the obligatory discretion of the expert. For this purpose, the assessment of the risks of essential  of intended or unintended misrepresentations in the annual accounts as well as essential of intended or inadvertent misrepresentations of the underlying transactions as well as of essential, intended or unintended  or unintended, are to be carried out against the legislation of the European Union.
In assessing these risks, the examiner takes into account all the internal controls relevant to the preparation and relevant overall presentation of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals in order to plan, but not with the aim of delivering a judgement on the effectiveness of the internal control system, the controls appropriate to the relevant circumstances.
A audit also includes the assessment of the appropriateness of the accounting policies used, the representativeness of the protected accounting values determined by the management and the assessment of the overall presentation of the annual accounts.
13. With regard to revenue, we shall review the subsidy received by the Agency from the Commission and assess its procedures for collecting expenditure and other revenue, where relevant.
14. As regards expenditure, we examine the payment rules, after the expenditures have been paid, recorded and accepted.
Advance payments are made after the mean recommender has proven their proper use and the agency has accepted the proof by billing the advance payment in the same year or later.
Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (6), in drawing up this report and in the declaration of incapacity, we considered the work of the independent external expert on the Agency's annual accounts.
16. The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 17. In its May 2016 report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed the urgent need to clarify roles and responsibilities and to analyse the workload of the Commission's procurement authority in order to increase the efficiency of the processes and procedures.
In addition, the IAS concluded that the planning and monitoring of procurement should be significantly improved.
The Agency and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY CURRENCY 18. The Agency transferred EUR 4.9 million and 86 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2015: EUR 1.4 million and 59 %).
As in previous years, these transfers were mainly in connection with the implementation of the REMIT regulation on integrity and transparency of the energy wholesale market(7) and amounted to 4.7 million euros in 2016 (2015: 1.1 million euros).
For Title II (Administrative expenditure), the Agency transferred EUR 1 million or 38% of the committed appropriations to the following financial year (2015: EUR 0.8 million and 35% respectively).
19. The increase in transfers of funds is of concern and is contrary to the budgetary principle of the principle of annuality.
The higher transfer rate is directly linked to the conclusion or signing of procurement procedures and procedures at the end of the year, leading to a transfer of supplies and/or payments to the following year.
In 2016, 98 out of a total of 299 units were signed in November and December (5 976 122.47 euros and 40 % of the total value of the units closed in 2016 respectively).
The Agency may make use of separate budgets to better reflect the multi-annual nature of the activities as well as the inevitable divergences between signings, deliveries and payments.
(6) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
(7) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Baudilio TOM, MUGURUZA, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 12 September 2017.
6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/29 EN Comments of the Court of Justice of the European Union The headquarters agreement between the Agency and the Slovenian government is to be established in Slovenia in a European school, but this has still not happened more than four years after the conclusion of the agreement.
The Agency transferred EUR 1.36 million and 59% of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2014: EUR 1.57 million and 62%).
These transfers were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation (1.1 million euros), a complex multi-annual operational activity related to the integration and transparency of the energy wholesale market.
Furthermore, the Agency transferred EUR 0.79 million or 35% (2014: EUR 0.98 million or 41%) of the appropriations committed under Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following year. These transfers mainly concerned studies and services not yet delivered in 2015.
Year 2014 2015 ANNEX Follow-up of comments from previous years of the correction acceptance status (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.)
EN C 417/30 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 ANSWER OF THE AGENCY 18. The Agency has successfully implemented the measures as agreed with the IAS.
Of the six recommendations, two are very important and three are important.
The Agency plans to finalise the final recommendation by October 2017.
19. The Agency notes that the funds transferred are high due to the multi-annual investments in connection with the REMIT Regulation and are not in line with the budgetary principle.
The high level of funding is due to the timing of the annual contract cycle, which was set up in 2013, when the Agency received the REMIT project at the end of the year, due to the additional budget.
Nevertheless, it should be noted that the commitment for the 2016 financial year was implemented at 100% under the REMIT chapter.
The Agency will analyse the implementation of separate budgetary resources for Title III.
20. The Agency considers that the introduction of separate funds for Title III better reflects the multi-annuality of some of its activities, in particular in the area of REMIT, provided that the financial resources provided to the Agency are stable and predictable.
(2) Opinion of the European Parliament of the Parliament of the Council on the annual report of the European Foundation for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA-London), together with the Agency's replies 27 report on the financial statements of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (HABM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (HABM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (HABM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (HABM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (HABM-Alicante), together with the replies on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ESB-Turin), together with the Agency's replies on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (HABM-Alicante),
1), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 (OJ No L 139, 13. 2. 1975, p. 1), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93.
The Court examined the financial statements of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year ending 31 December 1995.
Article 18(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 provides that:
15), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
In accordance with Articles 65, 61 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93, the latter shall also be responsible for the preparation and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial rules.
The Court of Auditors is obliged to examine these financial statements in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
At the European Council meeting of 29 October 1993 it was decided to transfer Cedefop's headquarters from Berlin to Thessaloniki.
In order to facilitate this move, certain changes have been made to the conditions of employment of the staff, some of which were not in accordance with the existing regulations.
The precise circumstances are explained in paragraphs 46 - 66.
In addition, a number of other cases where payments were not fully in line with existing regulations have been identified.
5. On the basis of its audit, the Court can establish with sufficient certainty that the financial statements for points, page 10, 11 12, are reliable for the financial year ending 31 December 1995 in so far as they correctly reflect the 1995 revenue and expenditure and the financial situation at the end of the year.
Apart from the important exception in the area of expenditure mentioned in the previous paragraph, the underlying transactions were, as a whole, lawful and proper.
General comments Background 6. The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No. 337/75 as the European Community's satellite body and is intended to promote vocational training at Community level.
Cedefop began its work in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Thessaloniki in 1995.
The purpose of this Regulation is to "support the Commission to promote and promote vocational training and continuing training at Community level", to contribute "to the implementation of a common vocational training policy", and to promote "exchange of information and experience".
In the field of vocational training, the Centre has, in particular, the task of 'producing documentation, contributing to the development and coordination of research, ensuring the dissemination of appropriate documentation and information, promoting and supporting initiatives in order to achieve a coordinated solution (especially in the area of coordination of training levels and mutual recognition of certificates) and of a meeting place for the parties concerned'. 8. The Centre is managed by a Board of Directors of 48 members (costs of ECU 334 000 in 1995 in this regard). (i) Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75, published on 13 February 1975, OJ 1975, p.
The Management Board shall elect from among its members a Chairperson and three Vice-Chairpersons for a period of one year.
At the time of the audit (May 1996), the Chair of the Administrative Council was held by the Director General of DG XXII — Education, Training and Youth.
The Director of the Centre shall be appointed by the Commission on the basis of a list of candidates submitted by the Board of Directors.
9. In accordance with the basic Regulation, the Director shall be responsible for the daily management of the Centre, while the Administrative Board shall be responsible for the overall management of the Centre.
The Management Board shall take decisions, adopt the work programme and the annual report, draw up the revenue and expenditure plan for the previous year and estimate the revenue and expenditure for the coming year.
The Commission's role, under the basic regulation, is not only to represent the Commission's senior officials within the Management Board, but also to adopt the work programme, to examine the annual report and the revenue and expenditure plan, and to forward the estimates of revenue and expenditure to the Council and the European Parliament.
Article 23 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 * of 30 June 1993, requires all the Centre's commitments and payments prior to the actual payment (a) to receive a reasonable cost-benefit-benefit-benefit-benefit of the budget expenditure to support Cedefop; (b) to make the most efficient use of human resources and resources; (c) to provide high-quality products which meet the needs of Cedefop's clients; (d) to provide a clear and coherent role within the framework of the European Community's vocational training policy.
Financial data 14. For the 1995 financial year the Centre had a budget of ECU 16.50 million.
The commitments entered into resulted in payments of ECU 10.11 million and transfers to the 1996 financial year of ECU 4.67 million, the remainder being cancelled at ECU 1.72 million.
On the basis of the previous year's appropriations carried over, 2,16 million ECU was disbursed and 0,29 million ECU was cancelled. of the previous year's appropriations, 2,16 million ECU disbursed and 0,29 million ECU cancelled.
Annex 1 to this report gives an analysis of the use made of appropriations for the financial year and the appropriations carried over from the 1994 financial year.
Annex 2 gives an overview of the budget accounts for the financial year 1995 and of the balance sheet of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 1995.
Comments on the implementation of the budget Separate activities 15. Following the move to Thessaloniki, the Centre had not yet implemented adequate procedures for the separation of the activities of the authorising officer, the accounting officer and the imprest administrator until the date of the audit (May 1996).
Thus, it was observed, for example, that the accounting officer was involved in the accounting of the imprest administrator.
Payments made without the approval of the financial controller are still high (in 1995 the figure was 60% without the salaries).
The strong use of the paying agency procedure is not in line with the spirit of the financial rules.
A more acceptable practice would be to handle only current expenditures and expenditures in a small amount, where the risk of irregularities is comparatively low, through the paying agency.
Transfers within the budget 17. Transfers between the various budget lines amounted to ECU 922,000 in 1995, i.e. 5.6 % of the initial budget compared to 10.9% in 1994.
13.3.97 transfers (ECU 570 000) were carried out in the last two months of 1995, while in 1994 the share was 33%.
18. The Centre did not make any transfers of funds between different titles in 1995.
Thus the remark made by the Court last year (2) was taken into account.
Transfers and cancellations of appropriations 19. The practice of transferring large amounts of funds already observed in previous years3 continued to increase in 1995.
In 1995, only 61% of the final available appropriations were disbursed compared with 73% in 1994.
The proportion of commitments carried over to 1996 was 28% (compared to 23% in 1994).
The proportion of decommissioned appropriations was 10%, compared with 5% in 1994.
Table 1 shows by title the appropriations carried over from the original 1995 budget and their subsequent use.
The transfers in the field of operational expenditure amounted to 53% of the initial appropriations compared to 40% in 1994.
As 8% of operational expenditure fell, the Centre paid out only 39% of its 1995 operational budget in 1995.
At the end of the first quarter of 1996, only 34% of the appropriations carried over from 1995 had been disbursed under Title 3.
As the budget and the cancellation of appropriations, and the size of the transfers to the next financial year, the high number of transfers of appropriations within the budget and appropriations, suggest that the work programme was not carried out as planned and that the principles of financial management were put at risk.
This fact and the lack of staff (see paragraphs 42 to 45) will have serious implications for the implementation of the 1996 budget.
The first tranche of ECU 2 300 000 was paid on 6 February 1995, followed by further tranches of ECU 2 400 000 on 20 April 1995, of ECU 2 500 000 on 28 June 1995, of ECU 2 800 000 on 5 October 1995, of ECU 5 875 000 on 22 November 1995 and of ECU 525 000 on 1 December 1995.
As in previous years (4), this rate of payment is not in line with the Court's annual report for 1994.
(3) Annual reports of the Court on the 1992 financial year, 1993 with Article 26 of the Financial Regulation of the Centre, according to which payments are to be made in the first half of each quarter and are to be adapted to actual needs.
Expenditure 23. After a decision had been taken to move the Centre to Thessaloniki, a new Deputy Director was appointed in 1994, who at that time lived and worked in Thessaloniki.
Staff moved to Berlin to receive a grant of two times their basic salary. Not even a year later, that is, after the move of the centre to Thessaloniki, the same staff again received a grant of two times their basic salary.
Since the transfer of the Centre was rapid, the duration of the stay of the operator concerned was only short (11 months) in Berlin; in addition, he spent part of this time in Thessaloniki, also receiving the full daily allowances (including the weekends) and the Court considers that these decisions are not in line with the principle of sound financial management and are contrary to Cedefop's principles.
24. The contract of another deputy director, who had already moved from Berlin to Madrid in July 1995', was approved by the Board of Directors with effect from 3 January 1995.
This staff member received a payment of ECU 71 030.
The Court considers that this decision of the Board of Directors does not comply with the principles of the economic management of the budget.
25. Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993, allows the award of a contract by the public of a contract where the total of the contract does not exceed the amount of ECU 12 000.
At least 12 cases have been declared in respect of an amount greater than ECU 12 000 without respect for the procurement procedure described in Article 45 of the said Regulation.
In the last two months of 1995, almost 40% of the commitments for the 'pilot studies and projects' budget for the 1995 budget (ECU 300 000) were made.
An amount of ECU 150 572 was committed to the expenditure of the 'exchange of officials and experts' budget line for the remuneration of an expert who began his work at Cedefop on 1 February and for another expert whose contract was signed on 22 December 1995.
These commitments have been overburdened in order not to overburden the funds.
27. The rent for Cedefop's temporary premises for January 1996 (22 750 ECU) was already included in the 1995 budget.
Since these expenditures relate to the 1996 financial year, they should also have been recorded for the 1996 financial year, and for 1994.
The Court urges the Centre to draw up an up-to-date inventory as soon as possible, as required by Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993.
29. The balance sheet shall show an outstanding amount of ECU 3 134 of outstanding outstanding claims from the preceding financial year for an invoice issued in 1991.
The Court's comment made last year (5) was not taken into account, although the Centre had given a corresponding assurance in its reply.
The Court recommends that the Centre depreciate this amount until there is reason to believe that this amount will be recovered.
30. At the end of the year the Centre had a remaining cash equivalent of ECU 5.9 million.
The Centre is therefore responsible for the management of large amounts of cash, although it has little expertise in this area.
The Court reiterates its observation, made last year,6that this situation should be avoided by adapting the Centre's quarterly retrieving of funds to the Commission's actual cash requirements. The Commission should also ensure that the Centre receives a realistic cash preview before making its payments.
General comments ^B 31. At the European Council of 29 October 1993 it was decided to move Cedefop's headquarters from Berlin to Thessaloniki in Greece (7).
32. The actual transfer to Thessaloniki took place in August 1995, and in September 1995 the Centre began its activities in Greece.
According to the Court's calculations, the 1995 budget accounts contain some ECU 3 300 000 for the expenditure related to the move.
33. Since 1 September 1995, the Centre has been housed in a building of the Institute of Agriculture and Industry of Thessaloniki.
No later than 1 September 1999, the Greek State will provide the Centre with a permanent accommodation facility.
The Centre has signed four agreements--(i) Annual report of the Court for the 1994 financial year.
(6) Annual report of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 1994.
(7) Council Decision 93/C 323/01 of 29 October 1993, OJ C 323 of 30.11.1993, p. 1.
The basic agreement between Cedefop and the Greek State was signed in Thessaloniki on 22 June 1995.
The three other agreements, including an agreement between the Greek State and the whole construction organisation, form part of this basic agreement.
Provisional accommodation 34. An annual rent of 273,000 ECU is payable directly to the owner of the provisional building of the Centre.
35. In accordance with Article 1 of the Agreement between the Greek State and the Centre, the Greek State shall make the building with the provisional premises, including all the associated installations, available to Cedefop from 1 September 1995.
The Greek authorities are responsible for electrical and electronic cable connections and for telephone connections.
36. At the handover of the building, the Centre did not raise any written objections.
However, during the first four months of Thessaloniki (September to December 1995), the Centre had to invest ECU 120 000 to make the temporary premises of the building workable.
One of the reasons for this was the need to install electronic and electrical cable connections and telephone connections.
37. These investments were fully supported by the Centre and the corresponding costs were included in the 1995 budget.
The agreements do not give a clear statement as to who is responsible for these investments.
Final accommodation 38. The Greek State is obliged to provide the Centre with a permanent accommodation building by 1 September 1999 at the latest.
Cedefop will pay the Greek State a total amount of 6 879 750 ECU for the construction of the building, which will be paid in four equal instalments of 1 719 937 ECU each.
The first three tranches were set at 1 September 1995, 1 September 1996 and 1 September 1997.
The final instalment shall be paid at the final handover of the building.
The Centre has not ensured that these payments are linked to the actual progress of the works.
The Centre will have paid ECU 5 159 811 more than two years before the building was handed over.
The Court recommends the Centre to ensure that the interest is used for the first tranche for the benefit of the Community.
No. C 81/6 EN.E.K. Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 41. The Centre should make sure that the Employee Accommodation Organization (O.E.K.) is responsible for the overall implementation of the work undertaken by Cedefop.
Staff: General remarks 42. The 1995 establishment plan provides for 79 posts, of which 24À,11LA,15B,26Cund3D. At the time of the audit (May 1996) 37 actually worked for Cedefop (14 A, 7 B, 14 C and 2 D), 11 had been taken over by other EU institutions, 14 had left the centre before moving to Thessaloniki and 17 had had had been left to stay in Berlin.
In 1995 and 1996, many new employees had to be recruited, and this development will continue in 1996.
43. The 17 remaining persons in Berlin are free to work for public and private institutions or other EU institutions, and continue to receive their salary for up to a maximum of 18 months, depending on their seniority at Cedefop (each service is equivalent to one month's salary and the minimum service period must be 6 months).
At the end of this period, the parties concerned may either move to Thessaloniki or seek another solution.
This situation has resulted in Cedefop not being able to fill these 17 posts (May 1996) because they are blocked in the budget and cannot be filled, because the situation may be in the future and they will be able to move to Thessaloniki.
44. It is unclear what is to happen to those of this group of 17 persons who do not wish to move to Thessaloniki after the specified duration of their stay in Berlin.
Article 20 of the Staff Regulations provides that 'the official must take the place of his official's official's place of employment or at such distance from that place of residence that he is not disabled in the performance of his duties'.
Nevertheless, three cases of staff who were not prepared to move to Thessaloniki have already been brought to the EU Court of Justice.
45. This situation, where 17 important items in the budget are blocked by staff members who are not currently working for Cedefop, had a significant impact on the Centre's work already in 1995 and will continue to do so in 1996 and 1997.
Staff: Amendment of Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 of 10 February 1975, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995, reads: "The staff of the Centre shall be subject to the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities.
The Centre shall exercise over its staff the powers delegated to the Appointing Authority.
The Management Board of the Centre shall, after consulting the Commission, lay down the corresponding implementing rules."
Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 also repeals Council Regulation (ECSC, EEC, Euratom) No 1859/76 of 29 June 1976 laying down the conditions of employment for the staff of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training.
The amendment was necessary in order to "consistently manage the staff of the various decentralised bodies at Community level" (8).
While the Centre's staff have been appointed officials, the staff of the other decentralised bodies are, however, temporary staff.
47. The Court has examined the changes to the conditions of employment and other arrangements between the Board of Directors and the staff, and has found a number of irregularities, the most serious irregularities, from the Court's point of view, are described in paragraphs 49 to 66.
48. The Management Board has not submitted these arrangements to the financial controller in order to issue his endorsement.
However, all the appropriations resulting from these agreements were covered by the paying agency procedure and subsequently received the financial controller's endorsement.
The Centre has adopted the following measures to adapt the situation of its staff: — a first step to the appointment of all its staff members as temporary staff on 1 March 1995 (Article 2(b) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Officials of the European Communities) in the same grade and grade as staff in contract on 1 March 1995. — a second step to the appointment of its staff as EU officials on 1 April 1995 was the result of an internal selection procedure, which was ‘ar a) a result of certificates of competence'.
Infringement of the Staff Regulations of seniority in the initial appointment of Cedefop's former contract staff at the time of the appointment of seniority 50. In the initial appointment of Cedefop's contract staff at the time of the appointment of temporary staff on 1 March 1995, none of the staff should have been classified in a higher seniority than level 3 (or in step 4 in grade A 1 (8) Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 amending Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 on the establishment of Cedefop, fourth recital).
9. 9 9 _BAR___BAR____BAR___BAR___BAR___BAR___BAR____BAR___BAR___BAR____BAR___BAR____BAR___BAR___BAR___BAR___BAR___BAR____BAR___BAR____BAR____BAR____BAR____BAR___BAR______BAR_____BAR______BAR_______BAR______BAR____BAR______BAR______BAR___BAR_______BAR_____BAR_________BAR_______BAR_BAR__________BAR___BAR_BAR_____________BAR___BAR___
However, 33 of the 59 temporary staff members of Cedefop have been classified as higher than level 3.
The Centre published 15 linked job offers and announcements of internal competitions on 1 March 1995.
In accordance with the Staff Regulations, the purpose of an election procedure is to organise a competition between several candidates so that the vacancy can be filled with the best qualified candidates (Article 27(1) of the Staff Regulations).
A selection procedure is therefore by definition linked to a competitive situation and the risk of non-existence (10).
This means that appointments are to be regarded as illegal following a selection process that abuses of discretion are to be regarded as illegal ( n ).
The Commission's Legal Service reached the same conclusion as the Commission's note of 4 January 1995 as the Commission's Commission's notice of 4 January 1995 (c) (12).
57. Since the selection procedures concerned have been pursued with a different objective than the one set out in the Staff Regulations, it should be assumed that the selection procedures carried out by Cedefop have been subject to a misuse of discretion, which is why they should be regarded as illegal.
It is necessary to identify, in accordance with Article 31 of the Staff Regulations, the members of the staff of Cedefop to be appointed as officials as from 1 April 1995 as from: — officials in category A or in the category in which they were to be appointed — officials in category A or in the category in which they were to be appointed — officials in category A or in the category in which they were to be assigned (i.e. in category A or in category A or in category L) — officials of the other categories: officials in the category in which they were appointed or in the category in which they were appointed (i.e. in category Β 1, Β 3 or Β 5; C 1, C 3 or C 5, D 1, D 3 or D 4) (Article 31, paragraph 2); — other members in the category in which they were appointed (i.e. in category Β 1, Β 3 or B 5; C 1, C 3 or C 5, D 1, D 3 or D 4) with the exception, as far as half of the appointments, of other staff in the category in which they were to be appointed (Article 31, paragraph 2 b).
59. Contrary to the provisions of the Staff Regulations, 32 out of 43 staff in a higher grade than the initial grade of their careers were appointed (13).
(10) Judgment of 29.9.1976, Case 105/75 GI UFFRI DA v RAT, ECR p. 1395. (n) Judgment of GI UFFRI DA, see above.
(12)A selection procedure involves, by definition, the risk of non-existence and there are obvious legal reasons why this risk margin should remain.
(13)Of 17 staff members appointed in category A, 13 were appointed in a higher grade than A7 (the Staff Regulations provide for a limitation of six appointments); all five LA携 staff were appointed in a higher grade than LA7 (the Staff Regulations do not provide for a similar option); of 18 staff members in category C, 12 were appointed in a higher grade than their initial grade (the Staff Regulations provide for a limitation of six appointments); two of three staff members in category D were appointed in a higher grade than in the initial grade of their career (the Staff Regulations do not provide for a corresponding possibility).
No. C 81/8 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Failure to comply with probationary obligations 60. Before a member of staff can be appointed to a permanent official, he must be successful in completing a probationary period (Article 34 of the Staff Regulations), the probationary period must therefore be followed by an objective, retrospective probationary evaluation of the official.
61. Contrary to the provisions of the Staff Regulations, the officials were informed, on trial, that their final appointment would take place; the trial period was clearly described in advance as necessary 'legal formalities', which were not really to be considered as a trial trial (paragraph 4.1 of the Framework Agreement, letter of 7 February 1995 to the officials on trial, the second subparagraph, and paragraph 1(f) of the Annex: the trial period is a legal formalities to be carried out as such by each official on probation). ·» Illegal secondment of the officials during the probation period 62. Article 38 of the Staff Regulations provides for secondment of officials to other institutions for their lifetime, i.e. officials who have already successfully completed the probation period.
65. This means that a system has been set up whereby up to 50% of the remuneration of staff is transferred to Thessaloniki in a currency to which a higher correction coefficient is applied (namely the correction coefficient of 111.4 %) is applied to Greece (a correction coefficient of 80.2% is applied to Greece ).
Irregularity with regard to other officials by introducing special mobility provisions 66. The Commission has committed itself to introducing specific provisions on mobility with regard to the Centre.
These provisions are contrary to the principle of equal treatment of all officials.
Article 13 of Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 clearly provides that the Staff Regulations and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants shall apply to the staff of the Centre.
This means that all the provisions contained therein shall apply to the staff of the Centre, including the point (c) of Article 29(1) of that Regulation, which concerns the taking over of officials by other institutions.
Thus, there is no justification for special treatment for mobility. Summary, 67. The Court's audit has shown that the Centre's work programme has not been carried out as planned, due to significant staff shortages.
This led to large-scale transfers and cancellations.
The audit has also shown that no functioning management and accounting procedures have yet been established.
68. Two Deputy Directors received remuneration equal to the basic salary for four months; these payments and a payment of ECU 71 030 to one of the Deputy Directors were not in line with sound financial management and the interests of the Centre.
69. At the time of the Court's examination, there were 79 approved posts, but only 37 were actually employed at the Centre.
17 officials had been appointed as EU officials,' although they had neither wanted to move to Thessaloniki nor had been taken over by another Community institution.
Conclusion 71. It is understandable that efforts have been made to keep staff in the institutions of the EU and to reduce the complexity of the move.
The problem is, however, that the regulatory framework, "within which the move had to be carried out, was not compatible with the proper treatment of senior staff, even after the changes to the employment conditions, and did not permit the smooth transfer of Cedefop to the staff without subordinating its activities.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 21 November 1996.
Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Title 1. Personnel expenditure 2. Operating expenditure 3. Operational expenditure 4. Expenditure not specifically envisaged Total Operational appropriations 7 649 3 991 4 850 10 16 500 • Appropriations for appropriations for appropriations for expenditure for expenditure for expenditure for the financial year 13. 3. 97 Title 1. Personnel expenditure 2. Operational expenditure 3. Operational expenditure 4. Expenditure for expenditure not specifically envisaged Total Appropriations for appropriations for appropriations for expenditure for appropriations for expenditure relating to expenditure for the financial year 7 649 3 991 4 850 10 16 500 • Appropriations for appropriations for appropriations for appropriations for expenditure relating to expenditure relating to expenditure for appropriations for the financial year 1274 1097 821 254 2 563 374 10 0 4 668 1725 ANNEX 2 Available appropriations 581 431 1430 10 2 452 Appropriations for appropriations for expenditure for appropriations for expenditure relating to expenditure relating to appropriations for the financial year 474 1097 821 254 2 463 374 10 0 4 668 1725 ANNEX 2
Value of fixed assets 1. Buildings and furniture Current assets 1. Stocks 2. Amounts to be recovered 3. Advances to be recovered 4. VAT to be recovered 5. Expenditure to be recorded Cash accounts 1. Bank account 2. Paying account 1994 1290 23 15 1 222 849 2168 1 125 1995 941 7 26 9 251 1962 5360 504 Debt 1994 1 3 1 2 967 232 394 6 330 2 4 5 5 5 693 (1 000 ECU) 1995 948 2 013 482 558 16 326 4 668 49 9 060 ANNEX 1 BUDGET YEAR 1995 - USE OF APPROPRIATE 5 693 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by Cedefop.
Budget 1995 (ECU 1 000) Appropriations carried over from 1994 Payments 5 279 2 916 1912 0 10 107 Payments carried over 548 343 1255 10 2 156 CAPITAL AT 31 DECEMBER 1995 9 060 Permanent capital 1. Capital 2. Balance of the financial year Short-term liabilities 1. Compensation deductions 2. Other liabilities Revenues to be recovered Reusable amounts Transfers from resources Floating payments ·
TABLE 1 CONTRACTS FROM THE ORIGINAL BUDGET FOR 1995 (ECU) Personnel expenditure Operating expenditure Operating expenditure Not specifically earmarked Total carryovers from 1995 1 273 814 820 797 2 563 677 10 000 4 668 288 Percentage of carryovers of the initial budget 16.7 20.6 52.9 100.0 28.3 In the period 1.1.-31.
Changes in appropriations disbursed in 1996 1 048 148 '500 982 873 883 0 2 423 013 Percentage of transfers of appropriations disbursed in 1995 in % 82 61 34 0 52 Total (a)
The Management Board will follow the structure of the observations and conclusions of the Court of Auditors.
The Board of Directors has the right to expect that all institutions and decentralised institutions will be treated in the same way and on the basis of the same technical standards and procedures that ensure equal treatment.
The Management Board considers that the uniform presentation of the problems fails to mention the essential facts which could be summarised as follows: — The decision of the European Council of 29 October 1993 was taken without prior assessment of the effects of such a transfer.
At his first meeting with the staff, he expressed his firm determination to move to 1 September 1995, a timetable that CEDEFOP maintained despite the problems caused by the relocation of the Centre. — The Chairman of the Board of Directors sent a letter to the Commissioners responsible, Mr van Miert and Mr Ruberti.
On 18 November 1994 the Chairman and Vice-Chairmen of the Management Board of CEDEFOP were received by the members of the Commission.
The President urged the Commission to draw up accompanying social measures, in particular for those staff who were unable to leave Berlin.
In the light of the regulations in force, the Commissioners stated that they were prepared to examine the specific problems of some of the staff in a positive and pragmatic spirit.
They also expected this from the other institutions of the Community (European Parliament, Council, etc.) — the Administrative Council, at its meeting on 8 and 9 December 1994, was unable to decide on the date of the transfer, because it was not acceptable for the transfer of staff, who could not move to Thessaloniki, without simply dismissing a modern social plan.
At the same meeting, the Management Board instructed the Director to prepare a decision on the Management Council, to be taken at an extraordinary meeting on 27 January 1995, which provided for a socially acceptable transfer of the Centre to 1 September. "— In the second half of December 1994, the Council began to examine the Commission's proposal to amend Article 13 of the Regulation on CEDEFOP, which provided for the staff of the Centre to be subject to the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities.
The Director adopted this amendment on the basis of the formulation of the framework agreement on the social measures relating to the transfer of CEDEFOP to Thessaloniki.
On 23 January 1995, the framework agreement was signed with the staff.
The preparations were carried out in close cooperation with the European Commission, which proved to be very helpful throughout the transition period (1994 to 1996). — The Management Board decided to accept the framework agreement and to move the Centre to Thessaloniki on 1 September 1995.
Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/13
Under the framework agreement, staff who were unable to leave Berlin decided to make themselves available to other institutions of the EU or public/private organisations and to receive a salary from the Centre for a period of at least six months, with a monthly salary paid for each year started.
The principle of paying a monthly salary for each year of service largely corresponds to the social plans and usual procedures in Germany and neighbouring countries. — Early retirement was considered in 1995 for 17 employees (age over 55 with 10 years of service and age over 50 with 15 years of service).
These measures were not part of the framework agreement and were not proposed by the Commission following decisions of the Council of Ministers of 17 November 1995 to accept the'release' of officials in connection with the accession of new Member States only to officials of the European Parliament.
The Management Board will respond in more detail in its opinions on points 46-66.
In general, it should be stressed that the political aspects should be taken seriously and that subsequent criticism should be avoided.
The transfer of a complete Community body within the restrictive framework of a large number of different regulations and given a considerable amount of social and individual problems is truly unique in the history of the Community.
5. The Board of Directors will return below in this reply to the exception mentioned in the last sentence.
The costs of meetings of the Management Board in 1995 are due to the fact that two additional meetings (in January and June) had to be held in connection with the transfer.
Moreover, the meeting in December 1995 was costing higher costs due to the official start of activity in Greece.
Only two meetings are planned for 1996.
13. The Management Board regrets that the Court has not responded to the European Parliament's decision to postpone the discharge for the 1994 budget.
This raises serious questions as — the discharge for 1994 in the context of the Court of Auditors' report for 1994 and the Council's recommendation for granting discharge should be considered in accordance with the usual rules and procedures; — the assessment of the 1995 financial year by the European Parliament in the absence of a report by the Court of Auditors for 1995 on which the Management Board might have been able to give its opinion would result in the mixing of very different situations; — the Centre in 1995 was transferred to Greece.
The transfer was carried out smoothly and under acceptable conditions.
This transfer, due to the disruptions to which the staff members have been subjected, requires a transitional phase which can only be completed in 1997.
In this respect, there has been a marked improvement.
In the initial phase in Thessaloniki, staff helped each other in the completion of the work.
16. As pointed out last year, increased use of the paying agency procedure was made at the request of the financial controller, who justified this by the cost-benefit ratio.
The financial controller also had to act more frequently.
The use of the imprest account procedure for all expenditure which could require provisional commitments limited the administrative costs and avoided delays.
The situation is even more difficult due to the payment arrangements in Greece (most payments are made in cash or by cheque).
Invoices on which bank accounts are disclosed are rare and contractors collect their own claims.
The geographical distance to the financial controller and the lack of reliability of the mail delivery must also be taken into account.
In addition, DHL express deliveries may only be made once a week for cost reasons (3 000 Bfrs per shipment).
An amendment to the decision to set up the paying agency procedure will shortly be submitted to the Management Board to better take account of the Court of Auditors' wishes.
17. The transfers over the last two months are due to the need for optimum use of the budget (of which ECU 2 000 000 was deferred and was only released shortly before the Centre was transferred to Thessaloniki) and to the decision of the Governing Board (7/8.12.1995) to recruit national experts seconded to the Commission (including to advance the Centre's work).
19. The Management Board was aware that 1995 and 1996 would be years of transition and renewal.
A certain reduction in productivity is inevitable in this international relocation, which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, has been carried out in an acceptable and smooth manner.
The Centre is still facing problems caused by the transition phase.
20. Since the centre was relocated with a greatly reduced number of employees, the work of the administration and of all other services slowed down.
For this reason, a non-automatic transfer of appropriations was requested and approved.
No C 81/14 D 不 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 22. The Management Board notes that the Commission makes every effort to comply with the rules of Article 26 of the Financial Regulation for the Centre and to pay out the subsidy in accordance with the actual needs during the first two weeks of the quarter.
This was improved in 1995 compared to 1994.
However, due to the long internal procedures (in which the authorising authority, the financial controller and the accounting officer are involved) and the length of the bank's referral procedure, an overall delay in the processing period (on average 12 days in 1995) cannot be completely avoided.
Nevertheless, in 1995 three payments would have been made almost in accordance with the provisions of Article 26, since they arrived in the centre less than four days after the end of the first two weeks of the quarter.
If the processing period had been the same for all payments (between 9 and 22 days) as for the average period of 12 days, all payments would have been made in accordance with Article 26 of the Financial Regulation.
The first payment was not in line with the rules, but this payment must be preceded by the commitment of funds, which must take some time.
23. The deputy director moved from Thessaloniki to Berlin because there was uncertainty about the actual date of the transfer of the centre.
At the time of the appointment (1 October 1994) no decision had yet been taken on the date of the move (which could have been postponed even further).
It was hoped that his stay would be short, but his final duration was still unknown at that time.
For the usual family reasons, he moved to Berlin under the conditions of his status.
The daily allowances for missions were granted in accordance with the same procedure as for other servants.
As regards the second grant for the establishment, the Deputy Director paid the Centre back, although he would have had full entitlement, after the audit.
24. At its meeting in June 1995, the Management Board terminated its contract on 31 December 1995 and instructed the Director to implement this Decision and to arrange for payments to be made in accordance with the Staff Regulations.
The Management Board was pleased that the Deputy Director was prepared to participate in the implementation of the 1995 work programme and to support the Centre in its new start in Thessaloniki.
The compensation (payment of one third of the basic salary from the date of termination of the duty of service until the expiry of the contract) was in accordance with the contract and Article 47 of the CBSB.
25. In view of the difficulties of the initial phase and the large number of new contracts, the Centre was not able to carry out the usual tendering procedures in each case.
The call for tenders for longer-term contracts is currently under way or is planned for 1996.
In addition, in order to ensure balanced budgetary management in the course of the year, the Management Board will prefer to adopt the work programme in order to allow the services to have the necessary time for tenders, to make commitments, and to conclude the contracts in question during the first months of the financial year.
The 40 % of the commitments for the pilot studies and projects budget line (ECU 300 000) were made in the last few months of the year, reflecting the late release of appropriations in the 1995 budget by the budgetary authority and the transfer of the Centre to Thessaloniki.
The Centre had to act logically and consistently, and had no other choice, as it had to meet its financial obligations under Titles I and II and was only able to make further commitments under Title III after the funds had been decommissioned.
The possibility of seconding national experts was granted by the Management Board at its December 1995 meeting and could only be financed by the deferred funds.
The Director had to act quickly and within a short period of time to prevent funds (which became available very late) from falling.
The (Austrian) expert (who was officially supported by the government) was the subject of the application at the beginning of 1995.
27. The reason for recording rent for January 1996 in the 1995 financial statements was purely practical.
The contract states that the rent must be paid in advance in two instalments on 1 January and 1 July.
Since the first payment was only made in October 1995, and it would have been difficult to pay back immediately on 1 January 1996, the first payment was made for a period of five months including January 1996.
28. The inventory is being updated.
29. This will be met.
The Centre shall ensure that it submits to the Commission a realistic statement on cash flow.
The last payment in the year should be the largest since it should also be used to cover the first months of the following year, in which it is normally necessary to make larger payments.
The management of the Centre shall assess the costs of the transfer and assess the developments in order to gain a comprehensive picture of the costs and benefits of the transfer to Greece.
Official Journal of the European Communities No. C 81/15 36.-37.
Since it was expected that the Centre would resume its work immediately after the move, some additional investment and changes were needed.
As has been noted, the agreements do not give a clear statement of this, because the centre needed more power connections and stronger computer cables than the existing ones.
Other investments concerned additional security requirements and communications facilities, such as Europe by Satellite, in order to be able to receive broadcasts directly through the institutions.
However, the Centre has put questions concerning the provisional building on the agenda of the Steering Committee, which deals with the new and (if necessary) the provisional building.
The Management Board is aware that the content of the agreement on the new building entrusted the Greek Government with a great responsibility, which is currently in compliance with the agreement. The Board of Directors is aware of the fact that the content of the agreement on the new building entrusted the Greek Government with a great responsibility.
Two points are of particular concern: — ensuring the provision of a high-quality building at a reasonable price; — ensuring the timely completion of the building (if possible before 1 September 1998).
The fact that large payments were made in advance (half of the building has already been paid, although the construction work has not yet begun) can also have positive effects, since the actual construction work (after selecting the construction plan and the construction firm in October/November 1996) could advance rapidly due to the immediate availability of the necessary funds.
In general, the Board of Directors has fully understood the concerns of the Court, which have also been shared by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Kellet-Bowmann and Mr Tappin, who visited the Centre on 1 and 2 and on 14 and 15 May respectively.
The Management Board is prepared to act on this issue in accordance with the Commission's recommendations.
42. Due to the various social accompanying measures, the personnel situation was very complicated, but all the persons on the salary list of CEDEFOP who were not provided to other organisations or who were seconded to Berlin were working for CEDEFOP and its work programme.
43. The Management Board adopted the decision on the social measures relating to the transfer (Framework Agreement) in order to take measures to be adopted as soon as possible (see the declarations contained in the minutes of the Council).
The evaluation of measures must therefore take account of their political background.
The Centre is located in Thessaloniki, and the Board of Directors and the Director decide on the organisation of the work.
Obviously, some items are blocked, as long as the social accompanying measures are effective.
However, by the end of 1996 almost all the measures will end and CEDEFOP, with full capacity, will be able to operate on the basis of medium-term priorities (adopted by the Administrative Statistics in November 1996) and the 1997 work programme, which will also be based on these priorities.
CEDEFOP will therefore take a revitalised and new approach to the future from 1997 onwards.
44. Persons who, for social or personal reasons, cannot leave Berlin, when the specified duration of their stay in Berlin ends, have three alternatives.
In this respect, the President of the Court of First Instance declared three decisions rejecting the requests for transitional proceedings.
Such persons must move, withdraw from the service of the Centre or find solutions in accordance with the Staff Regulations.
45. The effects in 1996 are, of course, serious, but will be minimal after the first months of 1997.
The transfer had its consequences and costs.
However, when compared with a similar transfer at national level, such as that of the CEREQ (Centre d'Etudes et de Recherches sur les Qualifications) from Paris to Marseille (where only 21 of the 120 employees had moved with the Centre), the effects of an international transfer over a distance of almost 2 000 km had not been unduly negative to CEDEFOP.
Precautionary cost estimates indicate that cost neutrality will be achieved in 2000 and that work will be even more cost-efficient (mainly because of lower labour costs in Greece). 46.-66.
(a) As the Court points out in its conclusions (71) it is understandable that efforts have been made in support of the staff in order to encourage them to continue their activities for the EU institutions and in order to alleviate the difficult problems of relocation. (b) However, it is not the Board of Directors' failure to "contain the regulatory framework within which the relocation occurred [...] compatible with the proper treatment of senior staff and not allowing for a smooth transfer of CEDEFOP". (c) Following the Board's decision of 27 January 1995, on 6 February 1995 (Regulation (EC) No 251/95), the Council amended Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 in order that "the staff of the Centre shall be subject to the regulations and arrangements applicable to officials and other staff of the European Communities".
Council Regulation (EEC, ECSC, ECSC) No 269/68 (see Article 102 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities) (see Article 102 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the Communities of the European Communities)
(d) Since the Community legislation did not provide for transitional measures, the Management Board had no choice but to act on its own responsibility to safeguard the rights and interests of CEDEFOP staff.
(f) In view of these circumstances, the Management Board had the obligation to: — provide staff with a high level of safety with regard to their place of work (appointment to permanent staff), — ensure that their category, grade and step, and — assist staff wishing to find a different job. (g) The Management Board also wishes to point out that the posts approved by the budgetary authority of CEDEFOP were permanent posts.
(h) In addition, the wording of Regulation (EC) No 251/95 (the staff of the Centre shall be subject to the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities) clearly provides for the employment of officials.
Since the posts filled by the staff are of a permanent nature, the decision on the status of civil servants, rather than on temporary contracts, was appropriate and justified.
The Board of Directors would also like to comment on the specific points raised by the Court: 46. (last sentence) The Board of Directors had the choice to appoint its staff either as permanent officials or to offer them two-year contracts (see opinion (g) above).
It was considered unacceptable to require staff to move from Berlin to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year contract.
48. Although it is true that the Board of Directors has not officially submitted the declarations to the financial controller for approval, the latter has nevertheless been informed of the decisions taken.
At the time of signature of the agreement, the outstanding individual decisions of the staff members have not yet determined the exact financial impact of the agreement.
It provided a framework which provided the basis for individual decisions and which received the full approval of the financial controller during his visit to Berlin.
50-51.
In the light of the argument set out above (e), the decision taken (see remark, second indent) was the only possible one.
It was also in line with the Commission's clear statement (see last sentence of the declaration to the Council's Protocols in the Annex) 'that there must be no deterioration in the conditions of employment of CEDEFOP's staff'.
The considerations of the Commission's legal service, which are only partially quoted in paragraph 56, leave sufficient room for such a decision.
The Management Board reiterates that Article 29 of the Staff Regulations entitles the appointing authority to conduct internal selection procedures for the purpose of filling vacant posts in an institution (paragraph lb).
The competitions were conducted in full compliance with Annex III to the Staff Regulations.
The purpose and obligation of the Management Board was to ensure that the greatest possible number of CEDEFOP staff agreed to move to Thessaloniki.
It should be borne in mind that Regulation (EC) No 251/95 amended the rules applicable to staff with effect from 1 March 1995 and that the move to Thessaloniki took place in August of that year.
The Board's approach was based on the following considerations: — it was unthinkable to require the staff to move to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year contract (recital (g) and (46) above); — there was not enough time to carry out a general selection procedure before moving to Thessaloniki, and there was no realistic way of expecting the staff to move without a safe job.
3 3 97 I DE  ➀ Official Journal of the European Communities No. C 81/17 56.-59./ The Management Board has already explained (see above, remark below) that the move to Thessaloniki meant a sudden change in the place of employment, which inevitably caused social problems, and for a certain period of time impeded productivity.
In the case of the case of the case of the worker, to require the worker to move after the assignment of a low grade or step, the situation of the worker would have worsened even further.
The Commission's Legal Service's note, mentioned in paragraph 56, provides sufficient arguments in point (d) in order to justify the position adopted by the Centre. 60.-61.
All staff members who applied for appointment as members of staff for a lifetime period of a period of probation as provided for in Article 34 of the status of staff members.
62. According to note f), 3rd indent, above, the Management Board considered it to be its duty to help the staff in an acceptable manner.
This view was also taken by the Commission's Legal Service.
65. The provisions governing the transfer provisions of part of the remuneration allow for the possibility of increasing the percentage from 35 % to 50 % in individual cases in the event of justified reasons in accordance with Article 4 of the Regulation.
The framework agreement enabled the transfer of a higher percentage (> 35 % of the Staff Regulations, but < 50 %) in individual cases and for certain liabilities entered into before 29 October 1993 (the date on which the European Council decided to transfer the Centre).
The application of these rules is completely different in the case of CEDEFOP and concerns only a limited number of persons with high liabilities in Berlin.
66. The Management Board wishes to thank the Commission for the support it has provided in a number of cases in the search for alternative employment opportunities for staff unable to move to Thessaloniki and for any other assistance it has provided to the Centre almost daily during the move.
68. See observations of the Management Board on paragraphs 23 and 24. 69.-70.
See in particular the general comments in points 46-66.
71. The Administrative Board regrets that the legislator has not included in Regulation (EC) No 251/95 any transitional legal arrangements in order to solve the difficult staff problems caused by the move to Thessaloniki.
In view of the lack of appropriate instruments, the Management Board was, all the more so, obliged to provide full support to CEDEFOP staff.
The Board of Directors believes that it has acted in the only acceptable manner in the present and truly unprecedented circumstances.
In the end, it was obvious that he had to make such an effort (as the Court acknowledges), as it was his duty as an employer to carry out the international work of an entire institution in a socially acceptable manner.
The Board of Directors, the Director and the staff acted in this positive spirit, possibly taking some risks but not in the exercise of abuse of power, nor in the exercise of unlawful acts.
No C 81/18 1 EN 韶 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 REPORT on the financial statements and financial management 1995 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Foundation Dublin) (97/C 81/02') (Notes pursuant to the second subparagraph of Article 188c(4) of the EC Treaty) CONTENT FINANCIAL CONTENT OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background Auditing financial data Follow-up of previous observations Separation of duties Paying agency £ Transfers of funds from title to title Article on business travel costs Cash balances Current assets Property on the Foundation's property Numbers Implementation of budget and accounts Transfers of appropriations 15 Transfers and cancellations of appropriations Revenue Expenditure 19 Conclusion 23 1 — 5 — 4 19 27 19 15 5 — 5 19 19 15 7 7 7 19 — 14 19 9 10 11 12 13 14 ^22 20 — 16 20 17 18 20 — 22 20 — 27 21 7 19 19 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 19 19 19 19
• FINANCING OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 1. This report shall be sent to the Council and the European Parliament in accordance with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (OJ No L 1365, 13.12.1975, p. 1.
The Court examined the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year ending 31 December 1995.
Pursuant to Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93
16) the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
This is in accordance with Articles 52, 54 and 55 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93,
26) amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (OJ No L17, 26.7.1993, p.
The Court of Auditors is required to examine these financial statements in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
3. The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted audit standards in so far as they are applicable to the Community context. Accordingly, it carried out audits of the accounts and used other audit procedures it considered necessary in this context. 4.
The aim of this new programme is to "could contribute to the design and creation of better living and working conditions through action to promote and disseminate the knowledge which is likely to support this development".
The Dublin Foundation began its activities in 1976.
The Court of Auditors examined the annual accounts and the financial management for 1995 of the Dublin Foundation in accordance with the relevant Regulations (2).
Financial data 7. For the 1995 financial year, the Foundation had a budget of ECU 12.5 million.
The commitments entered into resulted in payments of ECU 9.3 million and transfers of ECU 3 million to the 1996 financial year, with the remainder of ECU 0.2 million cancelled.
Of the appropriations carried over from the previous year, 1.9 million ECU was disbursed and 0.2 million ECU cancelled.
Annex 3 to this report contains an analysis of the use of the appropriations for the financial year and of the appropriations carried over from 1994 as described in the titles.
Follow-up to previous observations Separation of duties 8. The Court repeats its observations made in previous years that the tasks of the authorising officer and the accounting officer are not sufficiently separated.
This is contrary to Article 15 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, which states that the principle of ‘separation of the powers of authorising officer and of the accounting officer and the activities of the authorising officer, the financial controller and the accounting officer are (are) incompatible with each other'.
Paying Agency 9. A large part of the payments (1995: 5 9%, without salaries) remain without prior authorisation from a financial controller.
The extent to which the paying agency is used is not within the meaning of the financial rules.
It would be more acceptable if only (2) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 on the establishment of the Foundation (OJ 1975 L 131, p.
OJ L 139, 30.5.1975), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ 1993 No L 225, p.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976 on financial provisions relating to the Foundation
OJ L 164, 24.6.1976), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ 1993 L 132, p.
13.3.97 current or minor expenditure in respect of which the risk of irregularities is relatively low should be in the hands of the paying agency.The Foundation should, in consultation with the financial controller, define in writing what the current and smaller expenditure is.
Transfers from title to title 10. The Foundation continued to carry over from title to title in 1995 (see paragraph 16).
This is contrary to Article 21 of Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of the 1 494 000 ECU (11.9 % of the budget) and to ECU 756 000 (6.5%) in 1994.
The Foundation was able to transfer commitments to the following financial year by transfer of ECU 500 000 from Title 1 (Personnel) to Title 3 (operational expenditure), which would otherwise have to be cancelled in accordance with Article 6(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76.
As noted in paragraph 10 above, the Court considers that such transfers from one title to another are in breach of the financial rules.
17. As Annex 3 shows, the total settlement shows a payment rate of 75 %, whereas the payment rate for Title 3 ‘Operational expenditure' is only 54 %.
Table 1 shows by title the transfers from the 1995 budget and their subsequent use in 1996.
The transfers under Title 3 amounted to 45 % of the original appropriations.
By the end of March 1996, only 20% of the transfers had been used.
Income 18. The EU grant to the Foundation amounted to ECU 12.5 million in 1995.
The amounts actually requested and received amounted to ECU 2.5 million as at 26 April 1995, ECU 2 million as at 14 June 1995, ECU 4.3 million as at 12 October 1995 and ECU 1.3 million as at 31 December 1995.
The difference of ECU 2.4 million corresponded to the unneeded cash that the Court recommended the previous year to the Commission.
As in previous years, this type of financing is not compatible with Article 26 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93, whereby the grant is paid in the first half of each quarter.
Expenditure 19. Under Article 63 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976, contracts of more than 12 000 ECU must be awarded following a tendering procedure.
The following exceptions were found: — a contract worth ECU 533 072 for carrying out a Europe-wide survey of working conditions was awarded — a sample of 26 contracts selected for examination was awarded for six contracts awarded on the basis of Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976, Council, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93.
13. 3. 97 D.  횆 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/21 as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993, by hand. In three cases (delivery of computers in one case and study contracts in the other) Article 46 was used in order to avoid the tendering procedure.
There have been two instances of expenditure being invoiced before the commitment of the budget was made.
In one case, the accounts for November and December 1994 were taken into account for the commitment made in 1995 although the framework agreement between the Foundation and the contractor only began on 1 January 1995.
21. In a sample of 10 study contracts drawn for the examination, the final reports for five contracts were not received until months after the deadline laid down in the contract.
22. The Court found in the following cases that documents had been modified by means of correction fluid: — The date of the invoice to the financial controller of DM 45 365 (23 817 ECU) was to be invoiced by correction fluid and modified by hand from 17 January 1995 to 17 December 1994.
The financial controller endorsed this fax and the change in the date of the transfer led to the change in the balance of the 1994 and 1995 transfers. — The amount in a recovery order was in the form of a balance sheet and a change in the amount from ECU 1 680.16 to ECU 4 741.97 by hand.
It is not clear what the financial controller's endorsement refers to.
27. The examination of a sample of payments revealed problems in order management and inappropriate changes to important documents, see paragraphs 19-22.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 7 November 1996.
No. C 81/22 1 EN [ Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Assets 1994 Assets 1. Building 7106 2. Furniture 1 0 8 5 Current assets 1. Stocks 21 2. Amounts to be recovered 439 3. Business travel advances 8 4. Miscellaneous advances 1 5. Bank fees 6 Cash accounts 1. Bank account — Ecu 4488 — main account 131 — Paying account 104 - 1995 7106 1350 23 306 9 1 — 1520 190 245 Debts Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Balance of the financial year Short-term liabilities 1. Salary deductions Cash to be recovered Funds to be recovered Funds to be recovered Funds to be recovered Floating payments 1994 8 211 1 3 4 4 10 440 109 2 061 1214 13 389 (1 000 ECU) 1995 1 8 479 -2 040 18 306 224 3 012 751 10 750 ANNEX 1 Amounts to be recovered Funds to be recovered Amounts to be recovered Floating payments 1994 8 211 1 4 4 10 4 440 109 2 061 13 389 (1 000 ECU) 1995 - 8 479 -2 040 18 306 224 3 751 10 750 ANNEX 1 Amount to be recovered to be reported to 31 DECEMBER 1995 10 750 Source: presentation of the Court on the accounts on the accounts on the accounts of the accounts of the Court of the accounts of the accounts of the Dublin Foundation.
1 097 305 - 5 8 (1 000 ECU) 1995 10 143 165 39 10 347 5 185 28 833 177 3 320. 2 807 12 350 -2 003 147 -184 -2 040 EXPENDITURE Staff 1. Payments during the year 2. Transfers of appropriations Administrative expenditure 1. Payments during the year 2. Transfers of appropriations Operational expenditure 1. Payments during the year 2. Transfers of appropriations Result of the year (a) — (b) Differences in exchange rates in total expenditure carried over from the previous year (b) Appropriations withdrawn Year 1344 Source: Court of Auditors on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation. 1 097 305 - 5 8 (1 000 ECU) 1995 10 143 165 39 10 347 5 185 28 833 177 3 320. 2 807 12 350 -2 003 147 -184 -2 040
Total (a) Balance for the year
No C 81/24 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Title 1. Personnel expenditure Final appropriation 5 316 1 0 5 0 6 174 Payments 5 185 (97.5) 833 (79.3) 3 320 (53.8) Transfers 28 (0.5) 177 (16.9) 2 807 (45.4) Cancellations 103 (2) 40 (3.8) 47 (0.8) 190 (1.5) Appropriations available 160 169 1732 2 061 Payments 131 (81.9) 141 (83.4) 1642 (94.8) 1914 (92.9) Cancellations 29 (18.1) 28 (16.6) 90 (5.2) 147 (7.1).
Operational expenditure Total 3 012 (24) ANNEX 3 BUDGET YEAR 1995 - USE OF AVAILABLE AFFAIRS 12 540 The figures in brackets correspond to the percentage of final or available appropriations.
Title 1 2 3 Transfers from the 1995 financial year 27 956 177 357 2 806 626 3 011 938 Transfers as % of the original budget Transfers as % of the original budget As of 31.3.1996 Rate of utilization Transfers (%) Total 1995 budget (ECU 1 000) Transfers from 1994 9 338 (74.5) TABLE 1 Transfers from the original 1995 budget (ECU) 0.5 16.9 45.4 24. 27 134 97 67 932 38 504 720 18 599 786 20
The Foundation has introduced a series of measures to separate the tasks of the authorising officer and the accounting officer.
The Court of Auditors has taken note of these initiatives in previous reports.
The only problem that remains in practice is the procedure by which the authorising officer records expenditure in the existing integrated accounting system.
This problem will be solved once the Foundation has acquired a new accounting system.
Following consultations in 1995, the Foundation, together with other EU agencies, took part in a joint tendering procedure for the acquisition of an appropriate accounting system in 1996.
The result, however, was that none of the candidates met the requirements of the institutions 100%.
After close contact with the Commission services, the Foundation is expected to acquire an appropriate accounting system from the Commission in 1997 after work on an appropriate system that meets the technical and legal requirements of the agencies has been completed recently.
The Foundation has set up links with the Commission's services with a view to finding solutions to the identified problem. 9. The Foundation has set up contacts with the Commission with a view to finding solutions to the problem identified.
The Foundation has now been informed that this question will be discussed between the Commission and the European Parliament in the context of the ongoing dialogue on the agencies' financial regulation.
10. Following the last report of the Court of Auditors, the Foundation asked the Commission services to clarify the Foundation's Financial Regulation with regard to the transfers concerned.
The Foundation is now informed by the Directorate-General by DG XIX that the transfers have been carried out in accordance with the Foundation's Financial Regulation (see also paragraph 16).
11. All missions to the Foundation were documented and approved by the authorising officer after the authorising officer had verified that they were in conformity with the Foundation's work programme or administrative requirements.
The Foundation will review its procedures for recording and identifying the necessary documentation relating to the missions.
The Regulation establishing the Foundation requires the European institutions to be consulted and the social partners to be involved in their work.
While a deepening of the exchange of the FOUNDATION with the relevant EU bodies has taken place in Brussels in recent years, the number of missions to Brussels has not increased.
No missions are made when other means of communication can be used.
Where possible, telephone, Internet, e-mail and other electronic aids will be used. In November 1995, a videoconferencing pilot project was also launched.
Experiments with com-puter conferences have also been carried out.
14. On the basis of a proposal submitted by the Irish authorities, the lawyers are currently preparing a revised lease.
As stated in paragraph 10 above, the Foundation has been informed by the Commission that the transfers in question are fully in line with the Financial Regulation, and with the help of the Foundation has been able to use in the most efficient manner the resources allocated to it by the decisions of the budgetary authorities.
However, the Foundation appreciates the position of the Court of Auditors and Parliament and endeavours to carry out such transfers only in urgent cases.
These contracts concerned essentially studies with implementation periods of 12 months or more.
The Foundation will remind the Commission's services once again that grants must be paid by the 15th of each quarter.
19. In the Treaty establishing a European inquiry into working conditions, the Act in question states that this Treaty had been concluded between the European Commission and INRA (Europe) under a framework contract for the 'Eurobaromètre-Stan-dard' drawn up in the light of an open tendering procedure.
The free-hand award of contracts was fully in line with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of the Foundation's Financial Regulation and the criteria to be followed to this end, and Article 46(d) was applied to the supply of computers.
Only one supplier had the required software as well as the special multi-spas-big tasta-tures and provided local support: the other two contracts refer to research proposals.
The Foundation's Board of Governors approved at its meeting of 25 March 1994 the introduction of new procedures, which should be fully operational during 1995, for the award of contracts based on calls for expressions of interest, published in the Official Journal, and for calls for tenders.
The two contracts were concluded during the transitional phase defined by the Management Board.
20. The Foundation operates a decentralised ordering system.
The two invoices were part of a series of orders placed by an operational unit whose total orders exceeded the committed appropriations.
Appropriate measures will be taken to prevent this happening again.
The provision of a new accounting system should ensure the automatic implementation of the necessary controls.
21. Monitoring of the implementation of the study contracts shall be carried out on a monthly basis on a programme management basis.
22. The appointment was given to the departments concerned on 11 October 1994.
The change in the date on the invoice itself had no influence on the transfers.
However, the official concerned was reprimanded.
Any necessary manual corrections will be signed and dated in the future.
13. 3. 97. [DE Official Journal of the European Communities No. C 81/27 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA-London), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/03) (period from 1 September 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1.
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in accordance with Article 57(10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (a). 1.2.
The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 57(7) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director.
The Court of Auditors shall also be responsible for drawing up and presenting the accounts (2) and shall comply with the internal financial rules provided for in Article 57 (11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93. The Court of Auditors shall be obliged to examine the accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This is a report on the Agency's initial audit..1.3.
The Court's most important observations are set out in the second part of this report. 1.4. The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are ensured overall.
Ç) OJ No.
18. (2) In accordance with the provisions of Article 57(9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the accounts of all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up by 31 March 1996, the date of the adoption of the accounts.
This account was received by the Court on 9 April 1996.
Main observations on the implementation of the budget of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the 1994 and 1995 financial years
During the 1995 financial year, the Agency recovered the Commission's grant (ECU 10.1 million) without issuing the relevant recovery orders.
Accounting for budgetary operations 1.6.
Until August 1995, there was no journal on commitments and payments for this financial year.
At the end of the year, the Agency established an accounting system.
The Court found that this system allows for subsequent changes in bookings without this being apparent.
In the absence of committed appropriations, the appropriations available (in violation of Articles 29, 35 and 36 of the Agency's Financial Regulation) were exceeded, despite the fact that the Executive Director presented an amending budget approved by the Executive Board (transfers of appropriations from chapter to chapter).
By August 1995, the Agency has carried out all payments through a paying agency.
This additional use of the paying agency procedure is contrary to Article 45 of the Agency's financial regulation, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure. 1.8.
The Agency has not begun settlement of this expenditure until September 1995.
At the end of the financial year on 31 December 1995, some 937 000 ECU had to be settled.
General bill 1.9.
As a result of the settlement of the accounts through the paying agency, the accounts of the accounts and the budget were not made until September and December 1995.
This is contrary to accounting practices.
No. C 81/28 EN No. C 81/28 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 26 September 1996.
Result to be carried over Subtotal Appropriations to be carried over 1. Non-automatic carry-overs 2. Automatic carry-overs Subtotal Vover accounts 1994 1488 0 1488 1 0 1 8 2 831 3 849 31 3 34 0 5 371 (1 000 ECU) 1995 1394 1551 2 945 2 350 3 564 5 914 41 85 126 390 1226 199 1 815 10 800 TABLE 1 PROPOSALS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1995 10 800 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the data provided by the Agency. 17 5 371 Subtotal liabilities 0 Total liabilities 1226 199 1 815 10 800 TABLE 1 PROPOSAL FOR PROPOSALS FOR 31 DECEMBER 1995 10 800 Source: Representation of the Court on the basis of the data provided by the Agency.
1994 •6 800 13 6 813 413 226 2 568 3 618 5 6 830 -17 -17 (1 000 ECU) 1995 10 150 299 3 210 13 659 3 594 243 3 039 5 660 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551
13. 3. 97 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities No. C 81/31 REPLY OF THE EMEA 1.6.
The commercial accounting systems available on the market do not take into account the specific features of the Community financial rules.
For this reason, the agencies published a call for tenders in 1995 for a system in line with their needs.
Until the introduction of the new system, the Agency will work with a spreadsheet system.
Although this system can make subsequent changes to the accounts, it would not have been possible to make the accounts of the accounts of the budgetary operations.
These changes, however, can be seen in the general accounts.
All budgetary operations are documented in the case.
During the start-up period, until the appointment of the financial controller in the House, a paying agency was essential for the proper functioning of the Agency.
Only in this way has the decision of the Member States on the establishment of the Agency been rapidly implemented.
The registration of the financial controller reduced the use of the paying agency and closed at the end of July 1995.
75 % of the payments made by the paying agency were accounted for by December 1995.
Even if a large amount could not be settled until 1996, the Agency achieved a satisfactory final result and did its best in difficult circumstances.
This report will be submitted to the Committee on Budgets of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market in accordance with Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 (*). 1.2.
The Court examined the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 119(2)(c) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office.
Whereas, pursuant to Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the latter is also responsible for the preparation and presentation of the accounts (3), while complying with internal rules on accounts; whereas, pursuant to Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is required to examine the accounts;
This is a report on the first examination of the Office. 1.3.
Main observations on the implementation of the budget of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market for the financial years 1994 and 1995
During the 1995 financial year, the Office only awarded a grant of ECU 6.8 million (68%).
OJ L 111, 14.1.1994, p. 33.
(3) In accordance with Article 137(1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts of all revenue and expenditure of the Office for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 29 March 1996, signed by the President of the Office and forwarded to the Commission, the Committee on Budgets and the Court of Auditors.
This accounting was received by the Court on 2 April 1996.
The tables in the Annex to this report shall show these financial statements in abbreviated form.
The Court considered that the Office should have issued a recovery order for the entire budget (ECU 10.1 million) in order to comply with the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 4.6 million).
In the course of 1995 the Office established a system of accounting.
This is contrary to the internal financial regulation (Articles 4(1) and 29(1)).
Transfers and transfers 1.7.
The appropriations carried over to 1996 account for 46% of the budget and relate primarily to computer equipment (Titles II and III of the budget).
In addition, the appropriations available were carried over from Title I (Personnel) to Title II (Expenditure carried over) totalling ECU 2,529 million (25 % of the budget).
The inventory is kept only in terms of quantity but not in terms of value.
It is therefore not possible to coordinate with the amounts shown in the Office's balance sheet.
The administrative system established by the Office does not guarantee the proper separation of tasks and the proper implementation of the provisions relating to revenue, commitments and payments (authorizing officer, financial controller and accounting officer).
The office is currently housed in a building of the Spanish government.
However, there is no contract for the use of this building.
The Office should clarify the need for the provision of its permanent seat in the future for the provision of its services.
13.3.97 I DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/33 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 26 September 1996.
TABLE 1 SURVEILLANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1995 '2 17 1 4 2 7 194 3 469 1487 15 3 275 1 879 6127 Accruals and deferred income 15 Total liabilities 1487 6 127 169
No C 81/36 p 5  Eritrea Official Journal of the European Communities 13.3.97 REPLY OF THE AMTES Commission's grant 1.5.
The need for a recovery order was not recognised either by the Commission or by the OHIM.
The OHIM has taken note of this observation by the Court of Auditors and has prompted a recovery order for the 1996 financial year to be issued immediately for the total amount of the grant less the provisions.
Accounting for budgetary operations 1.6. It is true that the accounting system currently used by the OHIM allows subsequent changes to the accounts.
For the period up to the introduction of the Sincom2 system developed by the Commission, the OHIM has made organisational arrangements for additional security guarantees for the use of the current system.
Until then, OHIM has no other option but to await the Commission's accounting system, which is likely to be available before the end of the year, since the development of such a system is a major financial burden which an office alone cannot bear.
In 1995, the Office's budget was adopted in the light of a provision of ECU 2 million requested by Parliament for a general budget of ECU 10.1 million.
The provision was cancelled in two stages: — ECU 1 million in October 1995, — the balance in November 1995.
The temporary blocking of appropriations has of course had an effect on their use, particularly the appropriations under Title I of the Staff Regulations, since there was uncertainty as to whether the provisions would be effectively annulled.
OHIM was in no way in a position to recruit staff as long as the payment of salaries was not guaranteed by the end of the financial year.
After the release of the provisions, measures were taken to use the appropriations released to the budget lines, where the deadlines for the procedures for commitment of appropriations were still possible and where there was real need.
This is why the Office has requested a transfer from Title I to Title II in order to mainly create computerised material which was particularly urgently needed in the start-up phase of the Office.
It should be recalled that OHIM began its activities on 1 April 1996 and that since then more than 30 000 trade mark applications have been received, while the number of applications has been estimated at 15 000 for the whole financial year.
Inventory 1.8. At the time of the audit by the Court, OHIM had only just received the software for the computerised management of the inventory from the Commission; it was just installed at the time.
Division of tasks 1.9.
A question to the Court of Auditors made it clear that the matter concerns the order of signatures that must be respected in the budgetary and payment procedures.
It is therefore not a mistake with regard to the duties of the authorising officer, the accounting officer and the financial controller.
The Commission, in the Commission's view, must, in the view of the Court of Auditors, in the light of the Commission's view in the light of the Commission's view, be in the interests of the Court of Auditors, in the light of the Court of Justice's view, that the Commission's proposal must be in line with that of the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the Court of Auditors in the light of the Commission's view that, in view of the Commission's view, the Court of Auditors' proposal must be in line with the Commission's proposal in the light of the Court's view that the Commission's proposal must be accompanied by the proposal for a regulation, and in the light of the Court's view that, in the light of the Commission's view, the Court of Auditors' proposal in particular must be interpreted in the interests of the Commission's Court of Auditors's view, in the light of the interests of the Commission's proposal for a regulation, and in the light of the Commission's view, in particular, that the Commission's view that the Court of Justice and the Commission's Court of First Instance's view that the
Property, plant and equipment 1.10.
There is an agreement (see copy in Annex) between the Minister of Industry of the Spanish Government
13. 3. 97  柄~D~ Official Journal of the European Communities No. C 81/37 and the former Commissioner for the Internal Market Vanni d'Archirafi. On the basis of this agreement, the Spanish authorities shall make available to the Office, free of charge, a building (temporary seat) in which the Office is currently housed.
Under the terms of the agreement, the Spanish Government will take steps to provide the Office with a permanent seat.
The decision on the site and the specifications for the tendering procedure for the building to be constructed was taken on 3 July 1996 by the Spanish authorities.
This specifications will be published on 30 July of this year in the Official Journal of the European Communities (S series — Calls and Tenders).
Following these recent developments, the Office will take the necessary steps without delay.
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Training Foundation in accordance with Article 11(4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 of 7 May 1990 0.
The Court examined the financial statements of the European Training Foundation for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
Pursuant to Article 11(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Director.
Whereas, in accordance with Article 11 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the latter is also competent to draw up and draw up the accounts (2) and to comply with the internal financial rules; whereas in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Court of Auditors is obliged to examine the accounts;
This is a report on the Foundation's first audit.
The Court has carried out its audit in accordance with the generally accepted audit standards in so far as they apply to the Community context.
It has carried out audits of the accounts and applied other audit procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The main comments resulting from the Court's examination are set out in the second part of this report.
(2) In accordance with Article 11(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the accounts for all the Foundation's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up by 31 March 1996, signed by the Director of the Foundation and forwarded to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
The tables in the annex to this report represent these financial statements in abbreviated form.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Training Foundation for the 1994 and 1995 financial years Accounting for budgetary operations 1.5.
This system and the systematic implementation through the paying agency can lead to excess funds.
Paying Agency 1.6.
The Foundation carried out all payments through a paying agency in 1995.
This is not compatible with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation of the Foundation, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure.
In addition, the accounting of this expenditure was delayed, as the relevant documents had to be sent to the financial controller for approval to Brussels.
Contracts 1.7. ^ The Foundation has allocated several out of a total of ECU 0.4 million to make use of the funds still available at the end of the financial year.
However, it failed to comply with the procurement rules, in particular with regard to price or performance competition (Articles 45 to 51 of the financial regulation for the Foundation).
Financial controller 1.8.
In view of the current situation, the Foundation's internal control system could be improved by allocating to the Commission a financial controller on the spot.
13.3.97 I DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/39 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 10 October 1996.
No. C 81/40 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Assets Assets 1. Tangible fixed assets 2. Tangible fixed assets 1. Office equipment Subtotal Realizable values 1. VAT to be collected 2. Grant to be recovered from 1994 0 • 35 0 35 0 0 0 0 0 1995 0 568 0 568 0 543 24 5 6 7..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Balance sheet balance sheet Balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet
OJ No C 81/42 EN EN EN No C 81/42 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 REPLY OF THE FOUNDATION 1.5.
Balance-sheet accounting - The Foundation shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
It has also played a crucial role in the introduction of a single system for the management of the budget and of the accounts in all the departments.
Discussions are under way with the Commission's responsible departments, which will enable the Court of Auditors to overcome all the concerns raised by the introduction of a new system for the management of the budget which will enter into force on 1 January 1997.
It should be stressed that, over the period under review, none of the amounts allocated had been exceeded.
It should be stressed that the advance payments were not used for all purchases of equipment or for participation in the real estate that constituted a significant part of the budget.
Moreover, the use of the general advance payments has at present been reduced in accordance with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation, and all accounting documents of a given month shall be sent to the auditor in Brussels within the 10th and the 20th of the following month, respectively.
Contracts On the one hand, the contracts under discussion, closely linked to the activities and projects of the Foundation's work programme, represent an extremely small proportion of the Foundation's activities, both in terms of number and budget.
On the other hand, it is true that the inclusion of the competition that led to these contracts was informal.
This procedure had been chosen at the time mainly because of the urgency.
In addition, the contracts under discussion had the task of organising conferences and seminars on behalf of and on behalf of the Foundation and under its strict control.
The corresponding budget was divided into two parts: the fixed part of remuneration (less than ECU 12 000) and the operating part, which was fixed by the Foundation in advance and remunerated on the basis of the supporting documents.
On the basis of these elements, the Foundation considered that the actual contract amount would not exceed ECU 12 000.
The Court of Auditors, when it became clear at the beginning of 1996, did not share this view, this system was abandoned.
Accountants The Foundation shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in accordance with Article 13(4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 19901.
The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 13(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the budget was implemented under the reply of the Executive Director.
The latter shall also be responsible for drawing up and presenting the accounts (2), in accordance with the internal financial rules provided for in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 0, and the Court of Auditors shall, in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community, be required to examine the accounts.
The Court has carried out its audit in accordance with the generally accepted audit standards insofar as they are applicable to the Community context.
He has carried out audits of the accounts and applied other audit procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are ensured overall.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995 Commission grant 1.5.
During the 1995 financial year, the Agency has only one part of the legislation contained in its budget ( ) OJ L 120, 11.5.1990, p. 4.
(2) In accordance with Article 13(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts of all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up by 20 June 1996, signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and forwarded to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court of Auditors on 29 June 1996.
The tables in the annex to this report show these financial statements in the form of a abbreviated financial statements of the Commission (budget: ECU 12 million — appropriations recovered: ECU 6.2 million).
The Court considers that the Agency should have issued a recovery order during the 1995 financial year for the balance outstanding (ECU 5.8 million) in order to meet the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 7 million in total).
Titles I (staff expenditure) and II (expenditure) of the budget (expenditure of the budget) resulted in several overruns of the budget totalling some ECU 0.4 million.
This amount, which could not be charged to the 1995 budget, is shown on the assets side of the balance sheet in a depositary account and must be charged to the 1996 budget (in breach of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Paying agency 1.7.
Almost all payments to be charged to Titles I and II of the budget have been settled through a paying agency.
The use of that paying agency is not compatible with Article 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation, as the paying agency administrator was at that time both the accounting officer's function and the fund manager of some of the budget lines.
Furthermore, the deadlines for the submission of the supporting documents have not been met and the availability of the committed appropriations for payments has not been verified.
This seems to be the main reason for the above-mentioned excesses.
Transfers 1.8.
As at the end of 1994, a very large proportion of the available appropriations was carried over at the end of 1995 (ECU 7 million — 57.2% of the total).
Most of the transfers concerned Title III (operational expenditure) (ECU 6.4 million — 90.3% of the appropriations entered in this Title).
A large part (ECU 1.8 million) of the 8.5 million ECU carried over from 1994 to 1995 had to be cancelled (21% of the carry-overs).
No C 81/44 'Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Subsequent referral to the Financial Controller 1.9.
A number of commitments of ECU 0.5 million were submitted to the financial controller after the end of the year.
In these cases, the financial control authority has refused the approval of the Board of Directors, which the Board of Directors has disregarded.
The Court stresses the obligation to comply with the financial regulation to make the request for commitment of the budget for all measures which may involve expenditure (Article 27 of the financial regulation for the Agency) subject to the application for commitment of the budget in accordance with the rules of procedure.
The division of tasks was not respected in the administrative department of the Agency.
Because of the lack of accounting staff, the same person was also the accounting officer, the staff manager and the manager of some of the budget lines.
Accounting systems 1.11.
Two systems, independent, not linked, are used for accounting for budgetary operations, and for general accounting.
Furthermore, the accounting system for budgetary operations does not provide for any sped ues if the available or committed funds are exceeded.
Financial controller 1.12.
The Management Board has appointed the financial controller of the Commission as the financial controller.
The Court considers it appropriate, on the basis of the current functioning of the Agency, to assign the Agency a financial controller, a report adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 28 October 1996.
13. 3. 97 I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/45 Assets Assets 1. Tangible assets 2. Material and furniture 1994 153 650 (1 000 ECU) 1995 Liabilities 1994 1995 Operating values 1. Operating assets 9 Subtotal 812'153 2 209 9 2 371 172 5 740 32 5 944 3 243 421 Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Result to be transferred Subtotal Appropriations 1. Non-automatic transfers 2. Automatic transfers Subtotal 812 193 1005 1 5 8 2 6 932 8 514 3 - 240 9 762 2 371 1844 4 215 989 5 997 6 986 0 778 11979 Realizable values 1. VAT to be collected 2. To be recovered Amounts to be collected from the 75 850 Commission.3.5.
Total liabilities 0 8 025 Short-term 1. Salary deductions 0 9 762 Depositary accounts 11979 V Liabilities
1994 9 312 850 58 10 220 574 1 0 0 7 (1 000 ECU) 1995 6 219 5 740 362 12 321 2 896 202 1488 320 637 6 465 32 421 0 12 461  coffee 140. 193 1 791 1844 1 6 10 767 187 165 320 0 0 7 027 193 0 0 193
• The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994.
A first budget of ECU 10.2 million was adopted on 31 October 1994.
Since the decision on the seat of the Agency had been delayed, the work of the Environment Agency had to be done very quickly at the start of its work.
Projects have been identified and commitments made before the end of the year, thanks to a large amount of work, but for obvious reasons, implementation of the commitments could hardly begin before the end of 1994.
In 1995, the Agency was faced with the difficult task of implementing not only the 1994 budget but also a new budget of ECU 10.5 million for 1995, before the regular staff of the Agency began their service.
The Agency's vacancies were advertised in November 1994, and after a lengthy selection process involving more than 7 000 applications, the first selected candidates began work in the summer of 1995.
In short, the Agency had an ambitious work programme and had practically two budgets, but had only a very limited number of staff for this task.
Nevertheless, the work progressed and in 1995 major projects such as the Dobris Management Report and the revision of the 5th Environmental Action Plan were completed.
Five European thematic contact centres have been set up and the establishment of the EIONET has been progressing.
The Agency's regular staff increased by 1 person on 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary staff, such as national experts and auxiliary staff) and reached on 31 December 1995 the level of 22 regular staff, with 10 temporary staff remaining available.
The administrative machinery of the Agency has been gradually expanded as the same open recruitment procedure has been applied.
Nevertheless, in 1995, the Agency was clearly not sufficiently staffed to deal with the procedural and financial aspects of the work.
As far as the financial side is concerned, only one person was available in the first six months to work on the financial, budgetary and contractual aspects of the work programme.
In June 1995, the Head of the Administrative Department began his duties, and only in early 1996 did the other financial and contractual staff of the Department of Administration join in.
Although the Agency was doing its job, in the area of finance and budget, some of the errors in terms of the prescribed procedures were made.
Overruns Some budget lines have been overrun.
On the one hand, this was because the Agency's budgetary control system did not function satisfactorily, and on the other hand some payments made were not recorded because the Agency's financial department was clearly understaffed.
As a consequence, a discrepancy between the accounts and the payments made effectively, which appeared as an overdraft of certain budget lines, arose when the accounts were closed.
As no settlement between different budget lines may take place after 1 January, these amounts must be included in the 1996 accounts, i.e. must be financed from the 1996 budget.
In 1996, expenditure and the appropriations available under Titles I and II (i.e. the 1995 problem points) were carefully monitored to avoid an expenditure surplus.
Unobserved procedures (subsequent referral to the financial controller) A work programme was drawn up in the development phase of the Agency and its implementation was started before the administrative procedures were clearly defined and an appropriate administrative structure was available to monitor compliance with the procedures.
In some cases, this led to the commissioning and execution of work, excluding certain procedural rules.
In particular, work was commissioned without the approval of the financial controller in Brussels, which is a precondition for this type of operational expenditure.
The error was purely procedural and was justified in the fact that work had to be done, but the necessary administrative structures had not yet been set up to ensure compliance with the rules laid down by Brussels.
A clear delegation of powers of direction has been carried out, and staff are informed of the procedural rules.
Separation of tasks As in all public institutions, certain functions of a financial technical nature should remain separate with the Environment Agency.
One of the basic principles is that commitments and payment orders should not be made by the same person.
However, during the construction period of the Agency in Copenhagen, the number of staff was so low that this principle could not be respected.
This fact is rightly objected to by the Court of Auditors.
In the case of the Environment Agency, the Agency's financial controller and the Commission's financial controller shall be one and the same person, based in Brussels.
This would significantly impede the Agency's work.
The way out of this dilemma is to set up a paying agency.
I I m principle it works like a small cash reserve, although the amounts it covers are quite significant.
Instead of obtaining the prior approval of the financial control, the Agency orders the payment and sends the establishment of the procedures of the paying agency once a month for the subsequent approval of the financial control.
On the one hand, this will facilitate the work of the paying agency, but on the other hand, this will also be a two-sixth of a sword, since the agency's internal control and the financial department must be able to fulfil this additional responsibility.
The Court of Auditors' complaint is therefore understandable, but as long as the financial controller is located in Brussels, the Agency does not see any alternance as an extensive asset to the paying agency.
Computerised accounting system The Court of Auditors stresses the need for the Agency to implement a modern accounting system covering both general accounting and budgetary control.
Such a computerised system is essential for the EU's aggregated financial system if the intention is to avoid a large financial and budgetary commitment.
The Environment Agency wholeheartedly supports the conclusions of the Court of Auditors.
Since the beginning of 1995, the Agency has repeatedly tried to find a solution to this problem.
It is in the same form, by the way, for the other EU agencies.
In 1996, the agencies issued a joint call for tender, but it was unsuccessful, i.e. it did not find a satisfactory system.
The Agency is currently working on the possibility of using the new Sincom 2 budgetary control system.
It is planned that it will be installed and operational in good time in order to implement the 1997 budget.
However, there will continue to be a soft to budget control and another to general accounting.
The Agency will continue to look for a suitable solution to these problems and will endeavour to coordinate this work with the other agencies.
13.3.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/49 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA-Lisbon), together with the Centre's replies (97IC 81/07) (period from 1 November 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1 This report was submitted to the Management Board of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction pursuant to Article 11(11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 of 8 February 1993 No 1.2.
The Court examined the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 11(8) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Director.
In accordance with Article 11(10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 3294/94 of 22 December 1994 (3), the latter is also responsible for drawing up and presenting the accounts (4).
The Court of Auditors is required to examine this account in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This is a report on the Centre's first review.
The Court has carried out its audit in accordance with the generally accepted audit standards in so far as they apply to the Community context.
It carried out checks on the accounts and applied other audit procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The financial statements for 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are assured overall.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the 1994 and 1995 financial years 1.5.
In 1995, the Centre only issued a recovery order for 57% (3 million ECU) of the subsidy and recovered the corresponding appropriations.
The Court considers that the Centre should also have issued a recovery order for the ECU 2.3 million shown in the balance sheet (total ECU 5.3 million) in order to meet the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 2.8 million).
Aid granted by the Portuguese Government 1.6.
An amount of ECU 614 015 (including interest) made available by the Portuguese Government to the Centre for the Establishment of its Centre for the Establishment of the Centre is not shown as revenue in the budget but only in the balance sheet.
Accounting for budgetary operations 1.7.
This may lead to excesses of funds.
Paying agency 1.8.
During 1995, the Centre carried out a large part (45%) of its expenditure through paying agencies.
The systematic use of the paying agency procedure is not compatible with Article 43 of the financial regulation for the Centre, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure.
On the other hand, the accounts for this expenditure were delayed, as the supporting documents had to be sent to the financial controller in Brussels.
In 1995 considerable appropriations were carried over to 1996, i.e. ECU 2.8 million, representing 52% of the Centre's budget.
Some appropriations, which had been carried over from 1994 to 1995 (totaling ECU 4.607 million), had to be cancelled (0.368 million ECU, i.e. 8% of the appropriations carried over).
Dissociation of tasks 1.10.
Financial controller 1.11.
In view of the current situation, the internal control system could be improved by the allocation of a financial controller on the spot.
13. 3. 97 I EN  少 Official Journal of the European Communities No. C 81/51 Assets 1994 Assets 1. Fixed assets 0 2. Materials and furniture 0 Operating assets 1. Office materials 0 Subtotal 0 Realizable values 1. VAT to be recovered 0 2. Grant of the 681 (1 000 ECU) 1995 Liabilities 1994 1995 Commission 3. C recovered cash accounts 1. Bank accounts 3 049 0 1 3 050 0 2 350 4 2 354 2 162 0 7 566 Continuous capital 1. Equity 2. Profit to be carried over Subtotal Transfers 1. Non-automatic carry-overs 2. Automatic carry-overs Subtotal 0 35 35 365 -4 243 4 608 5 0 0 4 648 3 050 1294 4 344 1672 1063 2 735-99 388 0 388 7 566 debtors 0 Subtotal 681 3 967.
Short-term 1. Salary deductions V. Liabilities Total liabilities
2350 145 609 6 104 706 135 868 431 1 2 5 3 170 5 563 541 35 864 1440 Result to be transmitted Source: Representation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by the Centre. 157 4 608 4 765 35 · 35
The following remarks refer to the Court of Auditors' most important comments on the implementation of the EMCDDA's budget for 1994 and 1995 (points 1.5 to 1.11 of the Court of Auditors' comments).
The EMCDDA shares the Court's view that it would have been more appropriate to issue a recovery order for all all the funds entered in the balance sheet as the Commission's contribution, and that for the 1996 budget the budget was the same. b) The Portuguese Government (point 1.6 of the Court's comments) The EMCDDA acted in accordance with the Commission's budget control guidelines (which is also EMCDDA's financial control) in accordance with Article 54 of the Financial Regulation for the general budget of the European Communities and Article 82 of the Implementing Rules for the same (in line with the spirit of Article 142 of the Financial Regulation for the general budget of the European Communities).
However, the EMCDDA is aware that this can only be a temporary system (based on Excel-files) and that it needs a more efficient accounting system.
In this context, the decentralised agencies (including the EMCDDA), under the coordination of the European Training Foundation in Turin, published a call for proposals at the end of December 1995, with the aim of equipping themselves with an integrated integrated system of general accounting and accounting.
No. C 81/54  眇 EN     C Official Journal of the Communities 13. 3. 97 For the following financial years, the EMCDDA implements a plan for the programming and control of the implementation of the budget and its work programme, which aims to improve the use of the appropriations allocated and, in particular, to limit the transfers to exceptional cases. f) Separation of tasks (point 1.10 of the Court of Auditors' observations) C Due to its very limited staff in the years 1994 and 1995, the EMCDDA could not fully ensure compliance with the principle of separation of tasks, which the Court of Auditors pointed out.
The separation of the duties of the authorising officer, the financial controller and the accounting officer, as required by Article 16 of the financial rules of the OEDT for the duties of the authorising officer, has been fully complied with.
The EMCDDA is already trying to ensure the separation of tasks in the execution of the various tasks in question.
In this context, it shall, to the extent possible, take into account the requirements communicated by the Court of Auditors when defining their short-term staff requirements, in order to ensure the implementation of the administrative tasks referred to by the Court of Auditors (payment management, accounting, staff management and contracts) by different persons.
(g) Financial Controller (point 1.11 of the observations of the Court of Auditors) The EMCDDA's Management Board, when adopting the EMCDDA's financial rules in June, opened a negative decision on the delegation of the financial controller's duties to an EMCDDA staff member (in particular, on the basis of the European Commission's objections).
Since the European Commission's financial controller is also the EMCDDA's financial controller, it would also be up to the Commission to review the feasibility of a possible designation of a financial controller on the spot, taking into account the rules on this issue in the other decentralised agencies.
Price ECU 'L + C' Paper 'L + C' Paper 'L + C' Paper 'L' Paper 'L' Paper 'L' Paper 'L' Paper 'L' Microfiches' (*) 'I' Microfiche' ECU 595' 30' Supplement to the Official Journal (Calls for tender and public contracts) Year 1997 Paper CD'ROM 800' 600' to 32 pages 6,50 to 64 pages 13' More than 64 pages Case-related price fixing BELGIQUE/BELGIE Moniteur beige/Belgian State Blad Rue de Louvain 40'42/ Leuvenseweg 40'42 B'1000 Bruxelles/Bnjssel Tél.
(32 MEP) 552 22 11 Fax (32 ) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan 202 B 8432 B 1060 Bruxelles/Brussel Tél.
(32) 538 51 69 Fax (32) 538 08 41 E-mail: jean.de.lannoy@infoboard.be Librairie européenne/ Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat 244 B-10340 Bruxelles/Brussel Tél.
295 26 39 Fax 322 735 08 60 DANMARK J. H. Schultz Information A/S Herstedvang 10. 39 DK. 2620 Albertslund Tlf. 60 DANMARK J. H. Schultz Information A/S Herstedvang 10. 12 DK. 2620 Albertslund Tlf.
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 DEUTSCHLAND Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 78 69 P.O. Box 10 05 34 DEUTSCH 10.05.34 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 Fax (45) 63 19 69 DEUTSCHLAND Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 78 69 P.O. Box 10.05 34 D D.50667 Köln Tel. (45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 DEUTSCHLAND Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 78 69 P.O. Box 10.05.34 D.50667 Köln Tel. (45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 DEUTSCHLAND Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 78.06 P.O. Box 10.05.34 D.50667 Köln Tel. (45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69
Tel. (344) 644 648 Fax (344) 644 644 648 Fax (344) 645 648 GR.45 948 Tel. (344) 648 648 Tel. (344) 644 948 Fax (344) 644 648 Tel. (344) 648 648 Fax (344) 648 648 Fax (344) 648 948 745 Tel. (345) 748 948 Fax (344) 745 944 748 Tel. (344) 745 948 Fax (344) 945 748 948 Tel. (344) 848 748 748 Fax (344) 944 948 745 644 Tel. (44) 944 9 844 748 948 744 Tel. (44) 745 744 748 844 Fax (344) 944 848 748 948 Tel. (44) 648 748 745 848 Tel.
(30邗1)331 41 80/1/2/3 Fax (30兴1) 323 98 21 E datasheet: elebooks@netor.gr Γ.Κ. Ελευθερουδάκης AE Διεθνς Bιβλιοιλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR-105 64 Αθςνα Τηλ.
30-31-41-80/1/2/3-T--λεφα- (30-31-98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellò, 37-E-28001 Madrid Tel.
(34): 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (34): 575 39 98 E E-mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: viiw.tsai.es/mprensa Boletin Oficial del Estado Trafalgar, 27-31 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 4-31 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel. (34-31) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (34-31) 575 39 98 E-mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es E-mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: viiw.tsai.es/mprensa Boletin Oficial del Estado Trafalgar, 27-31 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 4-31 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel. (34-31) 575 39 98 E-mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es
353 ■ 353 ■ 661 31 11 Fax (353 ■ 475 27 60 ITALY Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 ■ 1 ■ 50125 Firenze Tel. 353 ■ 475 27 60 ITALY Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 ■ 1 ■ 50125 Firenze Tel. 461 ■ 661 31 11 Fax (353 ■ 475 27 60 ITALY Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 ■ 50125 ITALY LICOSA ITALY LICOSA SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 ■ 50125 Firenze Tel.
(39イ55)64 54 15 Fax (39 Fax) 64 12 57 E-mail: licosa@ftbcc.it URL: icl382.cilea.it/Virtual_Library/ biblioVvetrina/licosa/tt1.htm GRAND-BUCHÉ DE LUXEMBOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L.2411 Luxembourg Tél. 57 E-mail: licosa@ftbcc.it URL: LUXEMBOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L.2411 Luxembourg Tél.
(352)40 10 20 Fax(352)490 661 Ehmail: mdl@pt.lu Subscriptions: Messageries Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin Le2339 Luxembourg Tél.
AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlags and Universitätsbuchhandlung G mbh Siebenbrunnengasse 21 Postfach 1 A Universitätsbuchhandlung G mbh Siebenbrunnengasse 21 Vienna Tel.
(43卤1)53 161 334/340 Fax (43einfach) 53 161 339 E-mail: ausdelivery@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net:81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa Nacional-Casa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A Ρque1050 Lisboa Codex Tel. (43-1) 53 161 339 E-mail: ausdelivery@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net: 81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa Nacional-Casa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A Ρ4050 Lisboa Codex Tel. (43-3) 53 161 339 340 Fax (43-3) 53 161 339 E-mail: ausdeliver@manz.co.at
353 03 99 Fax 353 02 94-384 01 32 Distribuidora de Livros Bertrand Ld.° Rua das Terras dos Vales, 4 A Apartado 60037 P.2701 Amadora Codex Tel.
(351) 495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (351) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlen Kirjakauppa / Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoiseplanadi 39/) Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN1)00101 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel. (351) 495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (351) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlen Kirjakauppa / Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoiseplanadi 39/) Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN /00101 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel. (351) 495 90 50/495 87 87 87 Fax (351) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlen Kirjakauppa / Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoiseplanadi 39/ (351) Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN/Helsingfors Tel.
3588)121 41 Fax (358) 121 44 35 E: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractors 11 PO Box 200VER22100Lund Tel.: (358) 121 44 35 E: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractors 11 PO Box 200 Ss.22100Lund Tel.: (358) 121 44 35 E: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractors 11 PO Box 200 S.22100Lund Tel.: (358) 121 44 35 E: email: akatilaus@stockmann.mail.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm
(46頏46)18 00 00 Fax (46頏46) 18 01 25 E-mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel. (44-44-44) 18 01 E-mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel. (44-44-46) 18 00 00 00 Fax (46-46-46) 18 01 25 E-mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel.
(44 (117)873 9090 Fax (44)171) 873 8463 URL: www.tne:stationery: office.co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Blöndal Skólavördustig, 2 IS:101 Reykjavik Tel. (354)5515 650 Fax 354 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 Etterstad Njon06 Oslo Tel. (354)5515 650 Fax 354 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 Etterstad Njon0606 Oslo Tel.
97 45 00 Fax 47傑22 97 45 45 SWITZERLAND/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstrasse 85 CHE8035 Zurich Tel.
365 53 15 Fax 341 365 54 11 E-mail: urs.leimbacher@ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKÂ REPUBLIC OF NIS CR -- prodejna Konviktskâ 5 CZ--113 57Praha1 Tel.
(42掠2) 24 22 94 33 Fax (42 942) 24 22 94 33 E neighbours: nkposp@dec.nis.cz URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, GrivasDigenes Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CYgene 1509 Nicosia Tel. (44) 22 94 33 Fax (42) 24 22 94 33 E www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, GrivasDigenes Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY, 1509 Nicosia Tel. (442) 24 22 94 33 Fax (42) 24 22 94 33 E mail: nkposp@dec.nis.cz URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, GrivasDigenes Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY, 1509 Nicosia Tel. (442) 24 24 22 94 33 Fax (42) 24 22 94 33 E mail: nkposp@dec.nis.cz URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, GrivasDigenes Ave orders: PO Box 1455 CY.
(357玉屏2) 44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (357在2) 361 044 E星mail: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hàz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H为1396 Budapest 62 Tel.
(36-1)11 16061/11 16216 Fax (36-5) 302 50 35 E-mail: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LQA 05 Malta Tel. (36-5): www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LQA 05 Malta Tel. (36-3): Fax (36-3) 302 50 35 E-mail: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd. Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LQA 05 Malta Tel. (36-3) 302 50 35 E-mail: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd. Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LQA 05 Malta Tel.
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polena Krakowskie Przedmiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL.
(48-2)26 12 01 Fax (48-2) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dùnya Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad. (48-2) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dùnya Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad.
No: 469 TRώ80050 TünelまIstanbul Tel.
(90ⵚ212)251 91 96 (90ჟ312)427 02 10 Fax (9027212) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europress 251 97 Euromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel. (90∀212)251 91 96 (90,312)427 02 10 Fax (90,212) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europress (90GARIJA Euromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel. (90), Fax (90,312)251 91 96, Fax (90), Fax (90,312) (90), Fax (90,312) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europress, 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel. (90), Fax (90,312)251 91 96 (90,312)427 02 10 Fax (90), Fax (90,212) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europress, Euromedia Ltd 59, Bid., Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 404 3167, Victoria Tel.
(612)9417 53 61 Fax (612) 9419 71 54 CANADA Uniquement Subscriptions/ Subscriptions only: Renouf Publishing Co. Ltd 1294 Algoma Road K1B 3W8 Ottawa, Ontario Tel. (61) 9417 53 61 Fax (61) 9419 71 54 CANADA Uniquement Subscriptions/ Subscriptions only: Renouf Publishing Co. Ltd 1294 Algoma Road K1B 3W8 Ottawa, Ontario Tel. (61) 54 Fax (61) 9419 71 54 CANADA Uniquement Subscriptions/ Subscriptions only: Renouf Publishing Co. Ltd 1294 Algoma Road K1B 3W8 Ottawa, Ontario Tel.
(1拧613)741 73 33 Fax (1是613) 741 54 39 E-mail: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/-renouf EGYPT The Middle East Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel.: (44-41-41-41-41-41-61-61-741 73 33 Fax: (44-613) 741 54 39 E-mail: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/-renouf EGYPT The Middle East Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel.
3234 69 21 Fax (81質3) 3234 69 15 E-mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psisiapan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146Sandton Tel. (81OUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146Sandton.
(27 and 11)883 37 37 Fax (27 and 11)883 65 69 UNITED STATE OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611 883 37 Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel.
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) E-mail: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MÉXICO Mundi-Prensa Mexico, SA de CV RfoPânuco, 141 Delegation Cuauhtemoc ME-06500 México DF Tel.: (321) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax: (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) E-mail: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MÉXICO Mundi-Prensa Mexico, SA de CV RfoPânuco, 141 Delegation Cuauhtemoc ME-06500 México DF Tel.
553 56 58/60 Fax 514 67 99 E-mail: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE CORÉE Kyowa Book Company 1 F1.
Phyung HwaBldg 4112 - 2 Hap Jeong Dong, Mapo Ku 121p220 Seoul Tél.
OTHER COUNTRIES Please contact a sales office of your choice E COUNTRIES: E a 28071 Madrid Tel.: (34 your) 538 22 384 17 Fax: (34) 538 23 384 17 URL: www.boe.es 95 (Libras)/ 15 (Suscripciones) 49 (Libros)/ 14 (Suscripciones) Mediatrade Ltd. Pavia Hatza 1 HR:10000 Zagreb Tel.: (34) Please contact a sales office of your choice: (34) 538 22 384 17 Fax: (34) 538 23 384 17 URL: www.boe.es 95 (Libras)/ 15 (Suscripciones) 49 (Libros)/ 14 (Suscripciones) Mediatrade Ltd. Pavia Hatza 1 HR:10000 Zagreb Tel.
(385ttle)43 03 92 Fax (385score) 44 40 59 ROMANIA Euromedia Str.
(40▁Klemm) 210 44 01/614 06 64 Fax 40▁Klemm1 210 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technicka Knlznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO 6423 Bratislava 1 Tel. (44) 44 01/614 06 64 Fax (44) 210 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technicka Knlznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO 81223 Bratislava 1 Tel.
(42萬彧7)53 18 364 Fax (42紡錘7) 53 18 364 E-mail: europ@tbb1.sltk.stuba.sk SLOVENIA Gospodarski Vestnlk Zalozniska skupina d.d.
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 E (386) mail: allied ©gvestnik.si URL: www.gvesfnik.si ISRAEL R.O.Y. International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel.
972/33) 546 14 23 Fax (972/33) 546 14 42 Eњmail: royil@netvision.net.il Sub Fax for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel. (972/33) 546 14 23 Fax (972/33) 546 14 42 Email: royil@netvision.net.il Fax: (972/33) 23 Fax: (972/33) 546 14 42 Email: royil@netvision.net.il Email for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel. (: (972/33) 546 14 23 Fax: (972/33) 546 14 42 Email: royil@netvision.net.il Email: the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel. (: (972/33) 546 14 23 Fax: (972/33) 546 14 42
9 117312 Moscow Tel. (095)135 52 27 Fax (095) 135 52 27 Mundi Prensa Barcelona Conseil de Cent, 391 Esprogramm08009 Barcelona Tel. (095) 135 52 27 Mundi Prensa Barcelona Conseil de Cent, 391 E.08009 Barcelona Tel. (095) 135 52 27 Fax (095) 135 52 27 Mundi Prensa Barcelona Conseil de Cent, 391 E.08009 Barcelona Tel. (095) 135 52 27 Fax (095) 135 52 27 Mundi Prensa Barcelona Conseil de Cent, 391 E.08009 Barcelona Tel.
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 1 of 5 Avis juridique important 31997Y0313(06) Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies Official Journal C 081, 13/03/1997 P. 0043 - 0048 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/06/) (For the period from 1 September 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1.
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in agreement with Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (1).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in agreement with the requirements of Article 13 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. His responsibility includes the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in agreement with the internal financial provisions set out in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
This report constitutes the first audit of the Agency.
The Court conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are applicable in the Community context.
The Court carried out checks on the accounts and records and also applied search additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are presented in the second part of this report.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the underlying operations were carried out, on the whole, in agreement with the rules concerning legality and regularity.
Main observations concerning the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995 The Commission subsidiary 1.5.
During the financial year 1995 the Agency used only part of the Commission subsidiary provided for in the general budget (ECU 12 million, of which ECU 6.2 million was drawn down).
It is the Court's opinion that the Agency should have issued a recovery order during the financial year 1995 for the balance remaining due (ECU 5,8 million) in order to meet the commitments that were carried over to the financial year 1996 (totaling ECU 7 million).
Spending in excess of available intakes 1.6.
Several cases of expenditure in excess of available appropriations, expenditure to approximate ECU 0.4 million altogether, were found under appropriations I (staff expenditure) and II (administrative expenditure) of the budget.
This http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997... 26/10/2010
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 2 of 5 amount, which could not be charged to the budget for 1995, was entered on the assets side of the balance sheet in a suspense account, and had to be charged to the budget for the financial year 1996 (contravention of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Imprest account 1.7.
Almost all payments charged to the budget under titles I and II were made via an imprest account.
The utilization of this account was not in accord with Article 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation, since the administrator of the imprest accounts was, at the time, both the Accounting and the Authorizing Officer for certain budget heads.
Furthermore, the deadlines for the submission of supporting documents were not met and the availability of approaches committed was not verified before payments were made.
This situation seems to be the principal cause of the cases of spending in excess of available approaches pointed out out above.
Approvals carried forward 1.8.
At the end of the financial year 1995, as was already the case at the end of the financial year 1994, the percentage of referrals carried forward was very high in relation to the referrals available (ECU 7 million - 57.2% of the total budget).
The majority of these carryovers concern title III (ECU 6.4 million, representing 90.3% of the appropriations under this title).
A large share (ECU 1.8 million) of the approvals carried over from 1994 to 1995, totalling ECU 8.5 million, had to be cancelled (21% of the approvals carried over).
A posteriori referral to the Financial Controller 1.9.
Several proposals for the commitment of funds totalling ECU 0.5 million were submitted, a posteriori, to the Financial Controller for his approval.
In these cases, the Financial Controller withheld his approval, but this refusal was overruled by the Management Board.
The Court wishes to emphasize the obligation to respect the Financial Regulation and to submit proposals for commitments in due form prior to 'any measure of a child which might lead to expenditure from the budget' (Article 27 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Separation of duties 1.10.
The separation of spouses within the administration of the Agency has not been observed.
Due to a ranking of staff in the financial accounting department, the same person was, at one and the same time, Accounting Officer, administrator of the imprest accounts and Authorizing Officer for certain budget headers.
Accounting systems 1.11.
The budgetary accounting and general accounting are carried out on two independent and unrelated computer systems.
The budgetary accounting system is, moreover, not programmed to refuse entries in the event of approximations available, or approximations committed, being exceeded.
The Financial Controller 1.12.
The Management Board appointed the Commission's Financial Controller as their own Financial Controller.
The Court regards it would be advisable, in respect of the Agency's present mode of operation, to address a full-time Financial Controller for the Agency.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 28 October 1996. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 3 of 5 For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President >TABLE> >TABLE> >TABLE> (1) OJ No L 120, 11.5.1990, p. 4.
(2) Contrary to the requirements of Article 13 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts for all revenue and expenditure of the Agency in respect of the financial year 1995 were not prepared until 20 June 1996, the date on which the accounts were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and sent to the Commission, to the Board of Management and to the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 28 June 1996.
The renewed version of these financial statements is presented in the tables annexed to this report.
THE AGENCY'S REPLIES The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994.
A first budget of ECU 10.2 million was adopted already on 31 October 1994.
Since the decision on where to locate the Agency had been delayed a fast start was needed.
Through a significant effect, projects could be identified and the budget committed before the end of the year, but for previous reasons the execution of the commitments could be very start before the end of 1994.
Thus, in 1995 the Agency faced the daunting task of executing, not only the budget from 1994 but also a new budget for 1995 of ECU 10,5 million, and this before the regular staff of the Agency had taken up duty.
The vacant posts in the Agency were published in November 1994 and the selected candidates started coming on board in summer 1995 after a long selection procedure involving more than 7 000 applications.
In short, the Agency had an ambitious work program and virtually two budgets to execute, but very limited staff for the task.
Despite this, work went ahead and in 1995 the Agency finalized major projects, like the Dobris assessment, the review of the fifth environmental action plan.
Five European topic centres were established and the build-up of the EIONET advanced.
The build-up of the Agency progressed with regular staff increasing from 1 on 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary staff, for example national experts and auxiliary staff) to 22 on 31 December 1995, still supported by 10 temporary staff.
The Agency's administration has progressively developed since the same open procedure to recruit was applied.
Nevertheless, it was clearly too understaffed in 1995 to handle the procedural and financial aspects of the work.
On the finance side only one person was available to handle the financial, budgetary and contractual aspects of the work programme during the first half of the year.
In June 1995 the Head of Administration took up duty, and only in the beginning of 1996 did the rest of the finance and contract staff come on board.
The Agency rose to the challenge, but some topics of a procedural nature were made in the areas of finance and budget.
Overspending There was overspending on some budget lines.
The reason was, on the one http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
26/10/2010
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 4 of 5 hand, that the Agency's budgetary monitoring system did not function in a satisfactory way and on the other hand some executed payments were not introduced due to the fact that the Agency was seriously understaffed in the finance department.
As a consequence, when the accounts were closed, the discrepancy between the accounts and the payments actually made, showed up as overspending on some budget lines.
Since no adjustment between budget lines can be made after 1 January, this has to be booked on the 1996 accounts, i.e. be financed from the 1996 budget.
In 1996 the expenditures and the availability oftures in titles I and II, which was where the problems occurred in 1995, were carefully monitored in order to avoid overspending.
Procedures overlooked (Saisine a posteriori) During the build-up of the Agency, a work program was established and started being executed before administrative procedures had been well established and an administration in place to monitor that procedures were followed.
In some cases this led to work being ordered and carried out without all the procedures being observed.
In particular, work was contracted without the Financial Controller in Brussels having given his visa which is a prerequisite for this kind of operational expenditure.
It was not a question of finances being wasted or that the finances were not there.
The mistake was procedural and reflected that work had to be done and the procedures to ensure that this was done according to Community rules were not yet in place.
Procedures are now in place to avoid similar problems.
A clear delegation of authorizing powers have been established and staff informed of the rules.
Separation of functions In the financial framework of the Agency, as is the case in all public institutions, certain functions should be kept separate.
A basic principle is that the same person should not commit money and order payment.
However, during the period of establishment of the Agency in Copenhagen the number of staff in the Agency was so small that it was not possible to observe this principal.
This is legally criticized by the Court of Auditors.
However, once the staffing of the Agency started to increase this was corrected and these functions have been rigorously separated in the Agency since 1995.
Extensive use of imprest accounts The normal procedure for committing and ordering payments in the EU-system is to have prior approval by the Financial Controller in practice all cases.
In the case of the Agency, the Agency Financial Controller is the same as the Commission's and located in Brussels.
To send all financial transactions to Brussels for approval before they could actually be executed would be an excessively tiresome procedure.
It would seriously obstruct the working of the Agency.
The way out of this dilemma is the imprest account.
It works in principle as a petty-cash reserve oldough the amounts involved are important.
Instead of seeing prior acceptance from Financial Control, the Agency executes the payment and once a month the imprest account is sent to the Financial Controller to have the ex post acceptance of the payments which have been made.
On the one hand this ensures the functioning of the Agency, but, on the other hand, it is a double-edged word since the Agency's internal controls and the financial department must have the capacity to handle this additional responsibility.
Thus, the criticism by the Court of Auditors is understandable, but as long as http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 5 of 5 the Financial Controller is located in Brussels there is, in the Agency's view no alternative to an extensive use of the imprest account.
It is there with great interest that the Agency has noted the recommendation by the Court of Auditors that the Financial Controller of the Commission should place a Financial Controller in the Agency.
The Agency would welcome this step.
Computerized financial system The Court of Auditors underlines the need for the Agency to find an up-to-date computerized financial system which can integrate the accounting side with the budget monitoring side.
In the submitted financial system of the European Union such a computerized system is crucial to avoid having to tie down a lot of resources in financial and budgetary work.
The Agency supports wholeheartedly the conclusion by the Court of Auditors.
Since the beginning of 1995, the Agency has again and again tried to find a solution to this problem.
It is a problem which the European Environment Agency shares with the other EU Agencies.
In 1996, the Agencies launched a joint call for tenders to find a solution but this call for tenders has not been successful, i.e. no satisfactory system has been found.
Thus, the Agency is at present pursuing the possibility of using the new budget monitoring system Sincom 2. The plan is to have it installed and operational in time to execute the 1997 budget on the basis of this system.
There will be still one software for the budget monitoring system and another for the general leather.
Nor will the imprest accounts be integrated in the software the Agency will continue to look for an efficient way of solving these problems and will endeavour to coordinate this work with the other Agencies.
Managed by the Publications Office http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
C 309/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the 2006 annual accounts of the European Environment Agency, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/05) CONTENT INTRODUCTION.................................................................................................
1-2 25 ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 25 COMMENTS...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
26 Responses from the Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/25 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Environment Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (1).
The Agency's task is to establish an environmental monitoring network to provide the Commission, the Member States and the general public with reliable information on the state of the environment.
In particular, this information should enable the European Union and the Member States to take measures to protect the environment and to assess the effectiveness of these measures.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's terms and conditions.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information purposes, essential information from the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2006.
This declaration of confidence shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2), and shall be based on the analysis of the Agency's accounts, which the Court shall carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (3) were drawn up in accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 by its Executive Director and forwarded to the Court, which shall declare the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts.
5. The Court carried out its examination in accordance with the guidelines for financial control and the INTOSAI Code of Obligations and Code of Conduct and IFAC's international financial guidelines for the purposes of its purposes, insofar as they are applicable in the Community context.
The review was planned and carried out with a view to obtaining adequate assurance that the financial statements were reliable and that the underlying estimates are correct and correct.
6. The Court has a reasonable basis for the following appropriating the Court's financial statements. The financial statements of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 shall be Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's declaration of jurisdiction.
COMMENTS 7. About 30 % of commitments of the financial year had to be transferred.
The operational expenditure (Title III and assigned revenue) has been carried over more than half of the appropriations.
These transfers were partly not justified: in the last two months of 2006, the Agency made commitments in the amount of 1.3 million euros, but transferred the corresponding payments to 2007.
A sampling (4) of these transfers showed that they showed that they were exclusively related to 2007-performing activities.
Thus, the budgetary principle of legality was not strictly applied.
8. The authorising officer, who was subordinated, not only carried out ex-ante controls, but also managed the access rights to the electronic accounting system, which was a violation of the principle of separation of tasks.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 27 September 2007.
For the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER President (1) OJ L 120, 11.5.1990.
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 29 May 2007 and were received by the Court on 3 July 2007.
(4) The value of the sample is about EUR 500 000.
The Community's environmental policy aims at a high level of protection, taking into account the differences in the situation in the various regions of the Community.
It is based on the principles of prevention and prevention, the principle of prevention of environmental pollution, and the polluter pays principle (...).
The Community takes into account the scientific and technical data available in its scientific and technical work in the preparation of its environmental policy (...).
Introduce a European environmental information and observation network and provide objective, reliable and comparable information at European level for the Community, providing the Community and the Member States with the necessary information for the development and implementation of necessary and effective environmental measures; composition of EUR 37.1 million (EUR 32.1 million), (Article 174 of the Treaty) for cooperation in data harmonisation.
Source: Information provided by the Agency and the Member States by which they collect, compile, and evaluate data on the state of the environment and reporting on the quality and environment in the Community territory; two scientific personalities designated by the European Parliament. Staff on 31 December 2006 Publication of reports on, inter alia, transport and environment, agriculture and environment, energy and environment, bioenergy, air quality, greenhouse gas emissions, the state of Europe's nests, the spread of urban areas and the management of natural resources. a) the necessary environmental protection measures take, tasks provided in the establishment plan: 115 (115), b) evaluate the results of these measures, adopt the work programme and monitor their implementation. of which: 110 (107). + 47 (34) other posts c) ensure proper information of the public on the state of the environment.
─ promoting the comparability of environmental data at European level and, where necessary, the harmonization of measurement methods, where appropriate; 2. Executive Director, on a proposal from the Administrative Board, on the basis of a proposal from the national experts, experts and temporary staff;
Seminars organised within the framework of the Council Presidency...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
lightening the development of methods for the evaluation of the costs of environmental damage as well as the costs for prevention, protection and rehabilitation measures in the field of the environment.
Table 1 European Environment Agency (Copenhagen) (one representative from the Member States), update of the European Pollutant Emission Register (EPER).
☊ two representatives of the Commission, Community grant: 75% (84%).
The Commission has been appointed by the Commission.
The following busy busy busythead of the budget of the European Union (EN/ of the European Union) C 309/27 Origin of the revenue The following following busy busy busy The following revenue is increased 30 The following revenue is revenue Al of the expenditure of the Community ( busy) busy busy busy busy busy busyhead ( expenditure Al of the Community) budget revenue The expenditure of the Community is increased 308 13 508 886 122 Other expenditure Other revenue Title II expenditure of the expenditure of the Community 283 19 895 836 595 836 59 Operating expenditure Total 37 114 34 886 456 6 649 Operating expenditure Total 37 114 34 456 4 649 Operating expenditure Short-term receivables 2 611 13 443 423 Longterm receivables 494 Longterm receivables 494 Personnel expenditure Other administrative costs Operating costs Operating expenditure 14 500 795 4 843 15 000 35 462 72 7 666 528 621 4700 15 618 34 15 618 34 618 34 30 13 33 3 463 7 8 7 8 8 7 7 7 8 7 7 7 7 7 7 8 8 8 7 4 7 78 increased increased receivables and 7 budget expenditure 494 Personnel costs Other staff Personnel expenditure 794 Personnel expenditure expenditure Other administrative administrative operating Other administrative staff operating expenditure Other administrative administrative operating costs Operating Operating operating expenditure Other administrative expenditure Operating 14 500 Operating costs operating expenditure 14 500 13 8 13 30 7 894 795 4 4 4 795 4 6 7 7 795 4 7 7 8 8 795 4 494 4 4 7 894 4 8 894 4 8 8 The 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 7 8 8 843 495 4 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 4 8 8 13 133 8 7 8 8 8 8 4 8 7
(2) Recovery of property taxes 2000-2004 (905 000 euros).
C 309/28 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANSWER OF THE AGENCY The higher share of transfers to 2007 is mainly due to exceptional events in 2006, which led us to postpone intermediate payments to the thematic centres until the satisfactory delivery of the services.
The limits of the commitments granted were the obligation to conclude licensing agreements before 1 January of each year to maintain the continuity and the time needed to define and negotiate the costs and time limits of complex new work.
The Agency will continue to reduce the proportion of transfers in this context.
The risks associated with the described situation were assessed by the management and controls were carried out to reduce the risks.
The remaining risk is considered acceptable.
This situation will be reassessed in the framework of the revision of the safety-sensitive tasks to be carried out in mid-2007.
C 309/40 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the 2006 annual accounts of the European Agency for Reconstruction, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/08) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 41 RELATIONSHIP COLLECTION....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 41 COMMENTS...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
42 replies from the Agency.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/41 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96(1), as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 756/2006 of 28 November 2006 (2).
The agency, set up in 2000, was originally responsible for managing the European Union's aid programmes in Kosovo.
It was also extended to Serbia-Montenegro and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Agency implements programs to promote institution building and good governance to support the development of the market economy and basic infrastructure for civil society.
The Agency's mandate is in principle to expire on 31 December 2008.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 provide, for information purposes, essential information from the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2006.
RELIABILITY COLLECTION 3. This declaration of convenience shall be submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (3).
It is based on an examination of the Agency's account, which the Court must carry out in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (4) were drawn up by its Director in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 8 of Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 (5) and forwarded to the Court in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 8 of that Regulation and in respect of the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals.
The Agency's financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 shall be 31 December 2006 in all material respects.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's powers.
COMMENTS 7. The budget implementation rate was satisfactory.
However, the Agency will be alerted to the extent of the still too binding resources, which will require special monitoring of the Agency's programmes, as its mandate expires at the end of 2008.
8. With regard to the accounting system and the internal control system, the Court noted improvements over previous years, in particular in the monitoring of funds managed by external bodies and in the application of procurement procedures.
For the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER President (1) OJ L 204, 14.8.1996, p. 1.
OJ L 332, 30.11.2006, p. 18.
OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1.
(4) The annual accounts were drawn up on 13 June 2007 and were received by the Court on 6 July 2007.
OJ L 306, 7.12.2000, p. 7.
C 309/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community areas of responsibility under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Management structure The Agency's resources (data for 2005) Products and services in 2006 The Community carries out economic, financial and technical cooperation measures with third countries in the context of its tasks.
These measures comply with the measures taken by the Member States and are in line with the Community's development policy.
Objectives Scope of application Tasks Board of Directors Final budget According to operational centres (most important developments): (Article 181a) Operations centres in Belgrade, Pristina, Podgorica and Skopje with extensive administrative autonomy.
The Agency manages the main aid programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia, Kosovo, and the Republic of Montenegro) and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM). The Agency manages the main aid programmes in the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and the Republic of Montenegro) and in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM). The main beneficiaries are states, territorial units under the administration of the United Nations, federal, regional and local territorial units, public and semi-public bodies, social partners, enterprise associations, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organisations.
108 (114) posts provided for in the establishment plan, (iii) support for the establishment of a market economy and continued investment in basic infrastructure and environmental protection measures; other posts: (iv) support for social development and the strengthening of civil society.
Contract staff responsible for discharge: 29 (28) posts, 26 of which are staffed.
External control: 164 (170) posts, staff posts: 157 (162).
Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Court of Auditors. SERBIA: (a) Draft legislation for the reform of public administration; (b) Supply of equipment for the border police; (c) Completion of a state-of-the-art DNA laboratory; (d) Re-establishment and equipment for courts; (e) Re-establishment of public administration; (d) Re-establishment of jobs by means of loans from the Revolving Credit Fund; (g) Company training measures; (h) Regional training for adults; (i) Economic development programmes for the most important city administrations; (j) Re-establishment of new borders; (k) Re-establishment of municipal infrastructure; (l) Statistical office; (m) Support for the management of direct foreign investment; (n) Support for groups of minorities and returnees; (o) Completion of electrizits projects; (e) Installation of an air-works filter.
Euro Euro) 19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/43 Community competence areas under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Management structure The Agency for the Protection of the European Communities (reports for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Source: Information provided by the Agency.
MONTENEGRO: a) Construction of Podgorica International Airport and modernisation of Tivat Airport; b) Central IT database for the Ministry of the Interior; c) Support for the Agency for Human Resources; d) Creation of a new road construction and new transport law; e) Unbundling/restructuring of public electricity companies, energy efficiency strategy; f) Establishment of an Agency for Environmental Protection; g) Management consulting for companies; h) Support for the Training Centre for Justice; i) Criminal modernisation; j) Support for the development of a strategy for agriculture and development.
C 309/44 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Origin of revenue Receivables Allocation of expenditure Funds of the Community 24 795 20 200 Title I Staff 18540 17304 17117 187 1236 495 385 109 1903 17304 17502 187 1345 47 6755 4705 4651 507 1597 Revenue Expenditure Appropriations transferred from the previous year Appropriations entered in the final budget of the financial year Appropriations entered in the final budget Appropriations outstanding (from financial year and previous years) Other revenue p.m.
The revenue collected and the payments are saved according to the cash-based accounting method. (1 000 euros)
C 309/46 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency has established a highly accelerated procedure for the implementation of aid programmes.
The last allocation to the Agency for assistance amounted to EUR 250 million in 2006, which will be distributed over three years, which will run until 2009.
In the first six months of 2007, the Agency awarded aid in the amount of EUR 185 million, representing 74% of the annual budget.
Therefore, the balance to be awarded at the end of the mandate is expected to be small.
C 311/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the 2007 annual accounts of the European Agency for Reconstruction, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/07) CONTENT INTRODUCTION..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2-43 DECLARATION OF COMPLIANCE....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 43 COMMENTS.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
45 replies from the Agency...................................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/43 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96(1), as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1756/2006 of 28 November 2006 (2).
It also extended its mandate to Serbia and Montenegro, as well as to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Agency implements programmes to promote institution-building and good governance to support the establishment of the market economy and basic infrastructure and to strengthen civil society.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's obligations and responsibilities.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information, key information from the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2007.
This declaration shall be submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (3).
It is based on the audit of the Agency's bill, which the Court must carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (4) were drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 8(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 (5), and forwarded to the Court, which forwarded an explanation of the validity of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts.
5. The Court conducted its audit in compliance with the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI) and the International Professional Grounds for IFAC(6), insofar as they are applicable in the Community context.
The audit was planned and implemented with a view to obtaining adequate assurance that the financial statements were reliable and that the underlying financial statements were fair and proper.
OJ L 332, 30.11.2006, p. 18.
OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. 1.
(4) The annual accounts were drawn up on 10 July 2008 and were received by the Court on 16 July 2008.
(6) ISSAI stands for International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC stands for International Federation of Accountants.
6. The Court shall have an adequate basis for the following assurances: The assurance of the financial management The financial statements of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 shall be for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 on all the essential points.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's question of the Court's validity.
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget amounted to EUR 25.2 million compared to EUR 268.8 million in the previous year.
Although the budget implementation rate was satisfactory at the end of the year, the Agency, at the time of this year's implementation, at which time the year's budget of EUR 453 million was million for operational activities, namely EUR 163 million, which had not yet been committed, and EUR 290 million for payments to existing commitments.
Since the Agency's activities are planned for several years, some of the activities will have to be carried out beyond the year 2008 (the last year of the Agency's existence).
8. The Agency's mandate shall expire on 31 December 2008.
On 24 April 2008, the European Commission adopted a decision to transfer the programmes previously supervised by the Agency, and on 11 June 2008, it issued a note with instructions and guidelines on the transfer of the programme and contract documents.
This note does not cover all the posts of the Agency's Board of Directors.
The Agency and the Commission must sign an agreement approved by the Agency's Management Board to regulate the implementation of the relevant programmes and posts of the Agency.
This will facilitate the transfer of items and ensure that they are correctly reported in the Agency's annual accounts.
9. The sum of EUR 180 million shown in the overview in the report of 31 December 2007 reflects in part the pre-financing provided by the Commission by the Agency by way of contracts and grant agreements.
These, too, must be subject to the administrative competence of the European Commission at the end of the Agency's mandate.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 18 September 2008.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/45 Community competence areas under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Management structure 1. Administrative competence the Agency of 2007 (data for 2006) Activities and services in 2007 The Community carries out in the context of its powers measures of economic, financial and technical cooperation with third countries.
These measures supplement the measures taken by the Member States and are in line with the Community's development policy.
Objectives Scope of application Tasks Final budget: According to missions (most important developments): KOSOVO: (Article 181a) Administration, strengthening of institutions and the rule of law;, carrying out of all the actions required for the implementation of Community assistance, appointed on a proposal from the Commission.
The Agency manages the main assistance programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and the Republic of Montenegro) and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The most active countries are states, territorial units under the administration of the United Nations, federal, regional and local territorial units, public and semi-public institutions, social partners, corporate federations, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organizations.
One representative per Member State, two representatives of the Commission and one observer of the European Investment Bank.
(a) socio-economic development aid for minorities; Council Court of Auditors. of which 27 (26) staffed: 4. Total discharge of staff: 264 (273) a) drafting of legislation for public administration reform; Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Other posts: f) Privatisation of public utilities; staff: 165 (164) posts occupied; 154 (157) g) of which: sustainable forestry and forestry; administrative activities: 101 (102). d) support for privatisation and company training; b) support for civil society and the media; SERBIA:
MONTENEGRO: a) Supporting the integration of refugees and internally displaced persons and supporting civil society organisations; b) Strengthening environmental management; c) Improving road infrastructure in coastal areas; d) Supporting the reform of public administration: police and prison; e) Unbundling/restructuring of public electricity companies; energy efficiency strategy; f) Management consulting for companies; g) system for the identification and registration of animals and management of fisheries resources.
(b) Completion of the establishment of a national system for the identification of animals; (c) Increasing the performance of SMEs and the establishment of a personnel development fund; development of a national transport strategy; (d) Support for civil society organisations and communities; (e) Support for the elimination of industrial problem zones, the treatment of wastewater at community level, and the management of waste and its risks for health care; (f) Support for the planning of the instrument for health care; (g) Support for the implementation of professional standards in civil society administrations.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/47 Origin of revenue Revenue recorded in the financial year Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Commission grant 24 559 p.m.
23 960 4 743 Title I Staff 187021786917540 330 832 187 0 133 54 18889 17869 17673 330 886 36 6364 47668 4770 469 1125 Other revenue Title II Administration 5857 4768 4299 469 1089 507 0 471 Assigned revenue 225 642 222 461 Title III Operational expenditure 13727 3031 120 13607 0 678806 276086 236172 439217 3417 692533 279117 236292 452824 3417 Total 250 201 251 164 Total 38286 25668 21959 14406 1921 679500 276086 236776 439217 3507 717786 301754 258735 453623 5428 Revenue Expenditure Expenditures Assigned from the previous year  18727 3417 43224 3417 Total 250 201 251 164 Total 38286 25668 21959 14406 1921 679500 276086 2367 43217 3507 61754 258735 453623 5428 Revenue Administration Expenditures Expenditures As revenue As expenditures from the previous year  560 277 53623 423 528 Expenditures Expenditures
This table summarises the data presented by the Agency in its annual accounts.
The revenue collected and the payments are protected by the method of cash-based accounting.
C 311/48 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki)  the European Economic Area Table 3 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) (Thessaloniki) the Economic Results 2007 and 2006 the Economic Results of 2007 and 2006 the Economic Results 5.12.2008 Operational and Operational Results for the European Economic Area and for the Economic Area (Thessaloniki) the European Commission (Thessaloniki) the European Economic Area (EEA) the European Economic Area (EEA) the European Economic Area and the European Union (EEA) and the European Economic Area (EEA) the Economic and Social Committee (EEA) the European Economic and Social Committee (EEA) the Economic and Social Committee of the Economic and Social Committee (EEA) the European Economic and Social Committee (EEA) the European Economic and Social Committee the Economic and Social Committee (EEA) the Economic and Social Committee the Committee of the European Parliament (EEA) the European Parliament of the European Parliament (EEA) the European Economic and Social Committee (EEA) the Economic and Social Committee of the European Economic and Social Committee (EEA) the European Economic and Social Committee for the European Union (EEA the European Economic and Social Committee (EEA) the Economic and Social Committee (EEA) the European Economic and Social Committee (EEA) the Economic and Social Committee of the European Economic and of the European Economic and Social Committee of the Economic and Social Committee of the European Economic and of the European Social Committee (EEA
These financial statements are prepared according to the method of accrual accounting.
Table 4 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki)  (Thessaloniki) (the European Agency for Reconstruction) (the European Agency for Reconstruction)  European Economic Area (the European Agency for Reconstruction) (Thessaloniki) Table 4 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) (the European Agency for Reconstruction) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) (the European Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the European Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee) Economic and Social Committee (the Economic and Social Committee).
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/49 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 7. At the end of 2007, the Agency was able to continue its commitments and payments for the annual programmes 2004, 2005 and 2006, in view of the multi-annual nature of the CARDS programmes.
For CARDS, the deadline for the commitment is 2009 and for the payment is 2010.
The cost of these three programmes was EUR 1.8 billion.
The fact that EUR 163 million (9%) is still committed and that a total of EUR 453 million (25 %) is still to be paid three years before the CARDS deadline shows a very high execution rate.
The Court praised the Agency's performance in its Special Report No 5/2007 (OJ C 285, 27.11.2007, p. 1).
8. The Agency does everything in its power to successfully carry out this transfer.
It is about to draw up agreements for the strengthening of subjects from their involvement in various EU institutions.
In addition, the Agency is in contact with the Commission in order to formally regulate all aspects of the transfer, and will submit the outcome to the Management Board for approval.
4.12.2008 REPORT on the 2007 annual accounts of the European Aviation Safety Agency, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/04) CONTENT INTRODUCTION..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 21 COMPLIANCE DECLARATION.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 21 COMMENTS.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
23 Responses from the Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/21 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter the Agency) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2002 (1).
The main tasks of the Agency are the maintenance of a high level of civil aviation safety, the performance of the proper development of civil aviation safety, the development of certification specifications and the issuance of certificates for aeronautical products.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's capacities and capabilities.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 contain, for information, information from the Agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2007.
This declaration shall be submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2), and shall be based on the examination of the Agency's accounts, to be carried out by the Court in accordance with Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (3) were drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 49 of Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and transmitted to the Court of Auditors, which provides for the year's financial statements to be drawn up in accordance with Article 49 of Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and for the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
5. The Court carried out its examination in accordance with the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI) and the International Professional Grounds for Academics of the IFAC(4), insofar as they are applicable in the Community context.
OJ L L 240, 7.9.2002, p. 1.
(3) The annual accounts were prepared on 30 June 2008 and were received by the Court on 2 July 2008.
(4) ISSAI stands for International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC stands for International Federation of Accountants.
6. The Court shall have an adequate basis for the following. The following conditions shall be fulfilled: The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 shall be subject to change on all the essential points.
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget amounted to EUR 72.0 million compared to EUR 66.0 million in the previous year.
The Agency's budget shall be financed from fees and fees for the issuance or modification of the Agency's licence or certificate and approvals and from the Commission's contribution.
8. The 2007 establishment plan provided for 467 temporary staff posts, an increase of 139 posts compared with the 2006 establishment plan.
Since the appropriations for staff expenditure did not cover actual staff expenditure, the Agency decided to reduce the number of recruitments and agreed with the Commission to limit the number of posts to a maximum of 342, of which 333 were staffed at the end of the year.
However, the establishment plan has not been adjusted accordingly.
The Agency should carefully consider the amount of the expenditure proposed to the budgetary authority for the adoption of the budget.
9. In accordance with the new Rules of Procedure with effect from 1 June 2007 (5), the Agency classified appropriations in the amount of EUR 14.9 million as assigned revenue in order to cover future costs for the issuance of certificates.
However, this amount has been overestimated, since it also includes charges, which have been levied under the provisions of the old Rules of Procedure.
(5) Commission Regulation (EC) No 593/2007 of 31 May 2007, OJ L 59, 31 May 2007, p. 31.
C 311/22 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 10. In a procurement procedure, the situation for tenderers was unclear because of the lack of clear and complete information on the award criteria and their respective weights on the one hand and because of the method for the financial evaluation on the other hand.
In three other cases (1), following a call for expressions of interest, a restricted procedure was carried out, although the total value of the services to be provided was above the threshold from which an open procedure was to be initiated.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 24 and 25 September 2008.
For the Court of Auditors, Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President (1) Unfair total value: 2.5 million euros over a four-year period.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/23 Community areas of responsibility under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the Parliament and of the Council) Management structure The Agency 2007 resources allocated (Data for 2006) Products and services Common transport policy Objectives Measures to be taken by the Agency 1. Board of Directors composed of one representative per Member State and one representative of the Commission and set up an advisory body of interested parties.
Final budget: Opinions: The Council, acting by a qualified majority, can decide whether, to what extent and by what methods, appropriate rules for maritime and aviation are to be adopted. Maintaining a uniform, high level of safety in civil aviation safety in Europe and ensuring the proper maintenance and development of civil aviation safety.
(Article 80 of the Treaty) International cooperation: source: Agency information.
₴ development of approval specifications, including airworthiness codes and acceptable detection procedures, and any guidance on the application of Community policy; 2. Executive Director directs the Agency and is appointed by the Management Board on a proposal from the Commission.
55.8 (33.2) million euros (65%), Community aid: 26.5 (31.4) million-17 changes in certificates: specifications (15) and acceptable means of proof and instructions (2).
Contribution of the Federal Republic of Germany (Federal Ministry of Transport) and of the City of K?ln: 0.3 (1.2) million euros.
• changes in working arrangements with the Interstate Aviation Committee (USA) and JCAB (Japan); • completion of inspections to control standardisation in the competent authorities of the Member States; • external control 467 (328) posts for temporary staff in the establishment plan; • approval decisions as at 31.12.2007: • conduct the necessary investigations in companies.
European technical specifications: 198 Court of Auditors.
Additional type certificates: 879 Total staff: 362 (309) of which: 277 (227), 57 (57), 28 (25).
C 311/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Origin of revenue Revenue entered in the final budget of the financial year Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Expenditure transferred from the previous year(s) Own revenue 42 800 26 530 40 967 26 530 Title I Personnel entered 33 624 committed 33 086 disbursed 32 152 entered 386 transferred cancelled 934 538 available 286 disbursed 243 cancelled 43 Community grants Other grants and grants 1 879 2 593 Title II Expenditure in kind 9 819 27 766 9 564 27 155 7 968 9 956 1 596 255 17 199 611 2 585 16 381 2 504 14 238 81 2 143 Assigned revenue from revenue collected p.m.
836 14 865 326 Assigned revenue from fees and charges collected p.m.
14 865 326 0 326 14 865 0 500 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other assigned revenue Other assigned revenue 836 Total 72 045 85 281 Total 72 045 84 996 50 402 35 094 1 414 19 252 16 985 2 267 Revenue Expenditure Appropriations for the final budget NB: the totals of totals may give rise to divergences.
Source: Agency information.
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its annual accounts.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Aviation Safety Agency (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (2008) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K) (K of the European Union) (K) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union (K) (K of the European Union) (K) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union (K) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Aviation Safety Agency) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K) (K of the European Union) (K) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union (K of the Economic and of the Economic and of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the European Union) (K of the Economic and of the European Union (K of the European Union)
Table 4 European Aviation Safety Agency (Kiln)  赵蔚 Vermilgensicht as at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 (1 000 euros) 2006 268 1 719 0 0 13 881 24 056 39 924 639 30 663 31 302 8 622 3 029 5 593 8 622 Investment assets intangible assets Investment assets Investment assets Current assets Current assets Short-term pre-financing Current assets 0 Short-term assets Cash and cash equivalents Short-term liabilities Short-term liabilities Short-term liabilities Reductions for risks and liabilities Accounting liabilities Reserves Cumulative  ssse/losses Economic result of the year Total liabilities Net liabilities Net assets 0 21 820 36 659 60 295 797 44 618 45 415 14 880 8 622 6 258 14 880 2007 274 1 542 Source: Source: Agency.
These financial statements are prepared according to the method of accounting according to the period.
C 311/26 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 8. In the first two years of the implementation of the Rules of Procedure, the Agency's revenue was not sufficient to cover the estimated total cost.
For this reason, the Agency has decided, as a precautionary measure, to limit its attitudes.
This was reflected in the staff policy plan 2008-2010, which was agreed with the Commission.
9. In 2007 in the transition phase the old and the new rules were applied in the same way.
The calculation of assigned revenue from fees and charges is in accordance with Article 64(5) of the basic Regulation ((EC) No 216/2008), which states that fees and charges, including revenue collected in 2007, are assigned revenue.
The basic Regulation does not, in fact, provide for the exclusion of the expenses incurred under the previous Regulation.
The exact method of calculation was submitted to the Committee on Budgets of the Management Board (28 May 2008).
10. The Agency is fully aware of the need to fully comply with the Commission's procurement rules.
It will pay particular attention to inform potential bidders precisely about the award criteria and their evaluation.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/55 REPORT on the 2006 financial statements of the European Maritime Safety Agency, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/10) CONTENT INTRODUCTION..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 ACCESS TO ACCESSIBILITY...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
3-6 COMMENTS....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Responses from the Agency.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Point page 56 56 56 58 61
C 309/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter the Agency) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 (1).
The Agency's tasks include the achievement of a high level of maritime safety, the prevention of pollution from ships, the scientific and technical support of the Member States and the Commission and the monitoring of the application of Community legislation and the assessment of its effectiveness.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's functions and activities.
This declaration is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2) and is based on an examination of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (3) were drawn up in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 by its Executive Director and sent to the Court of Auditors for the purpose of making the accounts and the legal and regulatory aspects of the underlying financial statements in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002.
5. The Court carried out its examination in accordance with the guidelines for financial control and the INTOSAI Code of Obligations and Code of Conduct, as well as the international professional principles of IFAC, insofar as these are applicable in the Community context.
Commission Regulation (EC) No 791/2009 of 20 March 2009 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 797/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Regulation (EC) No 797/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 207/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1967/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Regulation (EC) No 797/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 3.12.2009, p. Regulation (EC) No 974/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 837/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1967/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2009, p. 1).
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 13 June 2007 and were received by the Court on 27 June 2007.
6. The Court has a reasonable basis for the following confirmation of the financial statements. Court confirmation of the financial statements The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended December 31, 2006 are valid for all the main items.
COMMENTS 7. More than 43% of the payment claims had to be cancelled at the end of 2006.
Beyond that, there was a rise in revenue during the last quarter of the year, which did not strictly respect the budgetary principle of budget truth.
8. When the budget and the establishment plan were drawn up, no action was taken, resulting in a high number of transfers (4), an inappropriate staff recruitment plan (5) and an incorrect presentation of the budget (6).
9. Legal commitments were made before the corresponding commitments were made (7).
Some undertakings provided for 100% prefinancing, which is not in line with the principle of sound financial management (8).
(4) More than 35 transfers in 2006.
(5) The non-implementation of the recruitment targets led to a transfer of funds, in which budget line 1 100 (fundamental budget) was reduced by EUR 1.2 million.
(6) The budget gives details of the payments to be made in the next financial years by way of commitments made in previous financial years (Article 31(2)(c) of the financial regulation of the Agency).
(7) Four cases in the total value of around EUR 345 000.
(8) Article 67 of the Financial Regulation (Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 of 23 December 2002).
19.12.2007 DE Official Journal of the European Union C 309/57 10. The inventory management system detects weaknesses in the presence of all the parties.
The on; on the basis of the records it is not possible, the actual IT equipment is not included in the system.
C 309/58 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Source: Information provided by the Agency. Community competence by virtue of the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002, as amended by Regulations (EC) No 1644/2003 of 22 July 2003 and (EC) No 724/2004 of 31 March 2004) Management structure 1. Management board The Agency for 2006 resources provided for the implementation (data for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Common transport policy Objectives The tasks of the 2006 budget Final budget: Number of specifications and instructions: 49 (including reports and/or studies). The Council may decide by qualified majority whether and to what extent and by what procedures appropriate rules for maritime navigation and aviation should be adopted.
promotion of a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and of ship pollution; support to the Commission in the further development of Community legislation and its application; composition (Article 80 of the Treaty)  of scientific and technical assistance to the Member States and to the Commission; tasks 132 (95) of the establishment plan of posts, seminars, training and workshops: 59 (102 days and 1 440 participants).
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Total staff: 131 (100), monitoring the functioning of Community rules on port State control, which may include visits to the Member States; one representative of each Member State, four representatives of the Commission, four non-voting representatives of the economic sectors concerned.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Table 1 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon) (Lisbon)
(i) the conditions for the granting of the aid for the granting of the aid for the granting of the aid (i.e. the aid (i.e. the granting of the aid) of the aid (i.e. the aid of the granting of the aid) (i.e. the aid for the financing of the financing of the aid) (ii) the conditions of the financing of financing (ii) the financing of the aid (i.e. the aid for the financing of the aid (ii. the aid for the financing of the aid) (iii) the conditions for the granting of the aid (ii) the granting of the aid (iii) the aid for the granting of the aid (iii) the aid (iii) the aid for the granting of the aid (iii) the granting of the aid (iii) the aid (iii) the aid for the granting of aid (iii) the aid for the financing of aid (iii) the aid for the granting of the aid (iii) the aid (iii) the aid (iii) the aid for the granting of the aid for the financing of the aid (iii) for the aid (iii) the aid (iii) the aid for the aid for the aid for the financing of the aid for the aid (iii.
Staff numbers at 31 December 2006: numbers on the high seas (operational activities): 7. 19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/59 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community revenue 44 738 32 030 Titlel I Staff (NGM) 13 459 2 972 12 705 2 550 10 387 1 944 664 606 2 408 422 161 62 99 333 248 85 Other revenue 0 362  (DE) 28 308 28 308 44 738 44 738 19 033 0.00 0 11 638 0 23 969 0 9 275 16 669 12 105 19 499 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 44 738 32 392 EN Total of CEECs 34 287 0 1 270 1 270 494 184 Revenues Expenditure Appropriations of the final budget for the financial year In the final budget of the financial year: Revenues collected from the previous year: expenditure carried over NGM: non-differentiated appropriations (commitments equivalent to the appropriations) 906 184 Revenues Expenditures Appropriations of the final budget for the financial year
GM: Separate funds (commitments must not correspond to payment appropriations).
ZE: Payment appropriations in the form of separate appropriations.
Title II Administrative expenditure (NGM) Title III Operational expenditure (GM) Table 2 European Maritime Safety Agency (MDG) Implementation of the budget for the financial year 2006 (ZE) 0 Source: Agency information () This table summarises the information provided by the Agency in its annual accounts.
C 309/60 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon)  of the European Union Table 3 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) of the European Union (Lisbon) Table 3 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) of the European Union of the European Union (European Union)
Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) -sample overview as at 31 December 2006 and 31 December 2005 Investment Intangible fixed assets 55 tangible fixed assets 523 circulating short-term pre-financing short-term claims cash and cash equivalents short-term liabilities short-term liabilities liabilities and liabilities short-term net assets Cumulative cash/losses total economic result total assets 4 849 270 11 633 17 330 191 12 111 12 301 7 185 Đ 2 157 5 028 17 330 2006 (1 000 Euro) 2005 69 455 5 351 105 8 866 14 847 107 7 555 7 661 2 750 4 435 7 185 14 847 net total assets and net assets total Source: Agency data 51 This table summarises the data reported by the Agency in its annual accounts.
These financial statements are prepared according to the method of accrual accounting.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/61 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency's budget has been used more than 50% to combat pollution.
In this area, the Agency launched calls for tenders for the award of four vessels specifically designed for pollution control.
At the end of the process, two companies decided to withdraw their offers at the last moment, so that only two companies could be awarded.
This led to the cancellation of payment cancellations at the end of the year.
8. The move of the agency from Brussels to Lisbon in 2006 had an impact on the budget, which was difficult to predict, including the retirement of nearly 20% of the staff employed.
9. Procedures to avoid post-commitments will be.
The conditions of prefinancing are revised in accordance with the Court's remark.
10. ABAC Assets' old asset management system was completed in June 2007 to remove the problems encountered by the Court.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/57 REPORT on the 2007 financial statements of the European Maritime Safety Agency, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/09) CONTENT INTRODUCTION.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Point page 58 58 58 60 63
C 311/58 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter the Agency) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 (1).
The Agency's tasks include ensuring a high level of maritime safety, ensuring ship pollution, providing technical assistance to the Member States and the Commission and monitoring the application of Community legislation and assessing the effectiveness of Community legislation.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 provide, for information purposes, information on the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2007.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (3) were drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and forwarded to the Court for the purpose of providing the Court with an explanation of its annual accounts and of the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts.
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 11 June 2008 and were received by the Court on 2 July 2008.
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget amounted to 48.2 million euros compared to 44.7 million euros in the previous year.
The Agency's budget is financed mainly by the European Commission.
The procedures for drawing up the budget have not been sufficiently strict.
This led to a high number of transfers of funds (5), a flawed presentation of the budget (6), and the unlawful modification of the source of funding for measures to combat pollution (7).
8. Legal commitments were made before commitments were made (8).
(5) More than 32 transfers in 2007.
(6) In the case of separate appropriations, the budget must include a summary of the appropriations for payments due due due due in the next financial years, due to commitments made in previous financial years (Article 31(2)(c) of the financial regulation of the Agency).
(7) From mid-June to December, 25 million euros were granted for measures to combat pollution by the budgetary authority as a similar resource (C1), arbitrarily transferred to assigned revenue (R0).
(8) Three cases for the total value of 208 000 euros.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/59 9. Selection criteria and the minimum number of points required for admission to the next phase of the selection process had not been established before the start of the evaluation process.
At no time have members of the Staff Committee been invited by the Staff Committee to participate in the recruitment procedures.
This approach has not ensured transparent and non-discriminatory procedures.
The Council may decide by a qualified majority whether to adopt appropriate rules for maritime transport and aviation by what means or to what extent; or whether to adopt appropriate rules for maritime transport and by what means; or whether to adopt a high, uniform and effective level of safety in maritime transport; and whether to apply the Council's rules for the further development of the Community and for the application of the Community's rules; or whether to apply them; or whether to adopt a high, uniform and effective level of safety in maritime transport; or whether to adopt, by means of a qualified majority the Council may decide by what means; whether or not to adopt appropriate rules for maritime transport and aviation.
Officials: 13 (9) Deputies national expertise monitoring of the functioning of the Community rules on port State control, which may include visits to the Member States; one representative of each Member State, four representatives of the Commission, four non-voting representatives of the economic sectors concerned.
ڙڪ Start of the activity of the maritime support services.
▁hält assists the Commission and the Member States in the identification and prosecution of vessels carrying out illegal discharges; 3. External control of the Court of Auditors.
爸 ، overcompensation of the classification societies recognised by the EU and submission of reports to the Commission; 4. Commission's consultation and support for the collection and implementation of the responsibilities of the EU directive on ship conservation;  over the submission of information to the Commission on the implementation of the directive on port reception facilities for ship dismantling in the European ports. Table 1 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) Parliament on the Council's recommendation.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/61 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community expenditure 48 249 37 387 Title I Staff (NGM) 15 320 3 180 11 999 3 149 11 805 1 881 1 267 3 321 31 664 245 419 606 523 83 Other revenue 157 29749 29 749 48 249 249 28132 0 43 280 0 0 19 295 0 32 982 141 1617 10 454 4 969 13 806 0 0 Total 48 249 37 544 VE Total DE 1 603 1 603 1 270 768 502 Revenue Expenditure Appropriations of the final budget for the financial year Revenue entered in the final budget for the financial year Revenue entered in the previous financial year Title II Expenditure in kind (NGM) Title III Expenditure in kind (GM) NGM: Non-differentiated appropriations (commitments equivalent to the appropriations of the final budget)
DE: Payment appropriations under separate appropriations.
The appropriations for Title III for the financial year carried over cover the total revenue recovered (EUR 101 000) and assigned revenue (Phare Đ 40 403).
The collected revenue and payments are collected according to the method of cash-based accounting. Declared paid tied......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
C 311/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon)  the economic result for the financial years 2007 and 2006 5.12.2008 Operational European Union grants Other grants Operational expenditure Personnel costs Other administrative expenditure Operating expenditure Total (a) 2007 33 801 1 111 34 912 10 791 356 3 252 14 842 29 242 5 669 (1 000 euros) 2006 24 716 678 25 394 9 616 236 3 548 14 151 27 551 Đ 2 157 Total (b) Economic result of the year (c = a Đb) Source: Agency data.
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its annual accounts.
Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon)  ssbon  European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) () 彪 Vermsengenssengicht as at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006 (1,000 euros) 2006 55 523 4 849 270 11 633 17 330 191 12 111 12 301 5 028 7 185 Đ 2 157 5 028 Investment assets intangible assets operating short-term pre-financing short-term receivables cash and cash equivalents short-term liabilities redemptions of risks and liabilities accounting liabilities reserves cumulated cash/losses Economic profit for the year total assets net liabilities net assets 2007 257 555 10 003 254 15 166 26 234 232 15 305 15 537 10 697 5 028 5 669 10 697 Source: Agency data.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/63 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency welcomes the observations of the Court of Auditors.
The Agency continues its efforts to improve planning and monitoring.
Particular attention is paid to forecasting and timing of payments.
The necessary transfers of funds in 2007 are within the 10% threshold of the financial regulation.
On a proposal from the Commission, the Board of Directors decided on 20,3.2007, to reduce the amount of the funds allocated to pollution, but decided not to treat the funds as such on 21 November 2007.
8. The measures to avoid post-primary training are being undermined.
The key factors are training and communication.
9. Following the comments of the Court of Auditors, measures were taken to ensure that the selection criteria and the minimum number of points required were set at a earlier date of the selection procedure.
In the light of the forthcoming adoption of the new implementing provisions on the recruitment of temporary staff, the Agency will take into account the further comments of the Court of Auditors on the recruitment procedures.
Orricial J ournal c 393 Volume 40 of the European Communities 29 December197 Notice No 97/C 393/01 97/C 393/02 97/C 393/03 97/C 393/04 97/C 393/05 97/C 393/06 97/C 393/07 97/C 393/08 # Information and Notices Contents Page I Information Court of Auditors Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop — Salonika), approved by the replies of the Centre 1 Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation), approved by the replies of the Foundation 10 Report on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA, London) (Financial Report of the European Court of Auditors) 18
23 Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies 29 Report on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Financial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies 35 Report on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Financial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies 41 EN 2 (Continued overleaf) Report on the financial statements of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies 47
Notice No 97/C 393/09 97/C 393/10 Contents (continued) Report on the financial statements of the Community Plant Variety Office (CPVO-Angers) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the office's replies 52 Report on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies....
58 Notice to readers (see page 3 of the cover) EN
(b) The general general principles of the European Parliament and the European Parliament and the Council Council of the European Communities and of the Council of the European Communities and the Council of European Communities (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) of) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C)) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C) (C
C 393/2 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 THE FINANCIAL STATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is addressed to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 12 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (a) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 (2).
2. The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year ended 31 December 1996.
In agreement with Article 18 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
This responsibility included the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for pursuant to Articles 65, 67 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3).
The Court of Auditors is required within the meaning of Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community to examine these financial statements.
3. The Court undertook its audit in agreement with generally accepted auditing standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context, and, appropriately, carried out search tests of the accounting records and search other auditing procedures as the Court deemed necessary in the circumstances.
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996'are reliable and the underlying transactions are, as a whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was l established by the Council Regulation EEC No 337/75 {) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of promoting vocational training at Community level.
Cedefop-commenced operations in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Salonika in 1995.
6. The same Regulation defines its role as that of assisting 'the Commission in 'encouraging, at Community level, the promotion and development of vocational and in-service training', of contributing 'to the implementation of a common vocational training policy' and especially contributing 'the exchange of information and the comparison of expertise'.
Its main tasks in the field of vocational training are 'to compile documentation, to contribute to the development and coordination of research, to disseminate useful documentation and information, to enhance and support initiatives likely to facilitate a coordinated approach (specifically in respect of the approximation of standards and the mutual recognition of certificates) and to provide a forum for all those concerned'.
Scope of the audit 7. The Court carried out a financial audit of the 1996 accounts and has reviewed the Centre's decisions concerning its temporary and permanent prevalences and staff situation.
Financial data 8. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the financial statements of the Centre.
Available estimates for the financial year 1996 amounted to ECU 14.8 million.
Commitments entered into give rise to ECU 11.4 million in payments and ECU 2.1 million in carry-overs to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 1.3 million having been cancelled.
Approvals carried over from the previous financial year give rise to ECU 4.2 million in payments and ECU 0.6 million in cancellations.
Table 3 of this report gives an analysis of the utilisation of the procedures for 1996 as well as of those carried over from 1995.
Observations concerning budgetary implementation Separation of duties 9. The Centre has put in place adequate procedures for the separation of duties of authorizing officer, accounting officer and imprest holder (5).
Imprest account 10. A high proportion (in 1996 74%, including sales) of payments continue to be made prior to approval by the Financial" Controller.
Last year (5) the Court recommended that the use of the.imprest account be limited to starting or small expenses, where' the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
A Management Board decision defining which kind of expenses may be paid threenph the imnrest account has been established and came into force on 1 January 1997.
Transfers of appropriations 11. The value of transfers of appropriations between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 891 600 (6 % of the initial budget), down from ECU 922 000 in 1995.
29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/3 12. Following consultations with and the approach of the different services in the Commission (DG IX, DG XIX and DG XX), the Centre transferred ECU 30 000 from budget line 117 6 'Other services and work sent out for translation and typing' to a newly created budget line 1 1 1 0 'Auxiliaries', and ECU 40 000 from budget line 1 1 0 0 'Basic sales' to a newly created budget line 1 1 1 2 'Local agents'.
These new budget lines were created by the Centre.
The Court acknowledges the reasons for making these transfers, but notes that they are contrary to paragraph 4 (a) of Article 21 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 which states: 'appropriations may be transferred only to budget heads for which the statement of expenditure has authorizedappro, or carried a token entry'.
The same budget lines are also included in the 1997 budget with approximation of the Budgetary Authority.
Carry-overs and cancellations of approvals 13. The volume of approvals carried over has decreased in 1996.
Almost 77% of final applications for 1996 were paid out in 1996 as compared with 61% in 1995.
The percentage of commitments made and carried over to 1997'was 14% (28% in 1995).
The percentage of cancellations was 9% compared with 10% in 1995.
Table 4 shows the carry-overs from the 1996 initial budget by title and their subsequent use.
Observations concerns the revenue and expenditure account and the balance sheet Revenue 14. The EU subsidiary for the Centre for 1996 was ECU 14 625 000.
The Centre actually requested and received ECU 14 410 000.
15. In 1996, for the first time Norway and Iceland paid the Centre ECU 9 6 1 3 5 as a contribution for their participation in the work programme.
Expenditure 16. Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 stipulates that contracts may be made by direct agreement where the contract involves an amount not exceeding the limit of ECU 12 000.
In the case of at least 17 study contracts and five fixed scores asset purchases, contracts over that limit were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of the Regulation, however all payments were approved by the Financial Controller.
17. The result of a study of delays in the submission of work by contracts for 1996 showed that 55 % of the contracts did. not respect the contract deadline.
None of the minutes of management meetings contained any evidence of a review of the performance of contracts in meeting contractual deadlines.
Balance sheet 18. The Centre made an up-to-date inventory list as.foreseen in Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as attached by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (s).
Fixed assets of ECU 1 443 431 recorded in the 1996 balance sheet represent the historic cost of materials and veneers.
19· At the year end, cash balances hero by. the Centre were ECU 4.1 million, down from ECU 5.9 million in 1995.
The Centre is again taking responsibility for managing large cash balances.
The Court recommends the Centre make its quarterly drawings from the Commission on the basis of its actual cash needs.
20. The balance sheet includes an amount of ECU 483 308 related to 'VAT to recover', of which ECU 251 434 recovers to the year 1995 but not yet recovered due to the move to Salonika.
The Court asks the Centre to do the necessary to recover this amount as soon as possible.
With regards to the 'VAT to recover for 1996', the Centre is recommended to explain to the responsible tax authorities every detail related' to this procedure to avoid funds being cancelled or excellent delays in reimbursement.
Audit of the Centre's premises'and staff situation Temporary premises 21. As the Court observed last year (8), the Centre had to invest ECU 120 000 to fit out the premises to make the temporary building functional and'ready for use'.
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the Centre 'explained that these costs were incurred to improve the conditions for efficient functioning of the Centre', but was unable to explain who wasable to bear these costs.
Permanent premises 22. The Centre and the Greek State signed on 22 June 1995, a basic agreement regarding the construction of the permanent building.
According to this agreement, the Centre will pay to the Greek State ECU 6 879 750 in four equal events of ECU 1 719 937.
The first two were paid on 1 September 1995 and 1 September 1996
This third installation has to be approved by the Budgetary Authority and the last installation will be paid when the building is handled" over.
23. If approach is given by the Budgetary Authority before 1 September 1997, the Centre will have paid to the Greek' State ECU 5 159 811 for the construction of the permanent building.
The construction of the building was planned to commence on 30 March 1997.
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the tendering procedure, which is managed by the Greek authorities, was not yet finalized nor were any contracts signed.
As a consequence, no financial data or budget related to this investment was available for audit.
Staff 24. In 1996, the staff complement table authorized 81 posts (permanent and temporary positions), of which: 25 A, 11 LA, 15 B, 27 C and 3 D. At the time of the audit (May 1997), 78 persons were actually working in.
Salonika, of which: 60 officials and contemporary officials (25 A/LA, 10 B, 23 C and 2 D), 7 national experts, 5 local agents, 3 auxiliaries, 2 interims and 1'stagiaire'.
25. Another three persons are working at Cedefop's office in Brussels, one person is seconded to Eurostat for a cooperative project, three persons we're still in Berlin, This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors and 13 November 1997. four staff members are on special leave (CCP) and one person has been ill for many months.
Many new members of staff have been recruited during 1996.
26. The Court has been informed of an investigation by the Greek tax authorities concerning, among others, tax and social security payments for local staff put at the Disposal of Cedefop by a company in Salonika.
Conclusion 27. In the case of at least 17 study contracts and five fixed-asset purchases, contracts over the limit of ECU 12000 were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as without Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (see paragraph 16).
28. The Centre once again holds large cash balances.
This situation should be anticipated by making quarterly drawings from the Commission on the basis of actual cash needs (see paragraph 19).
29. The Centre is recommended to make sure that the work concerns the permanent premises is progressing in conformity with the contract (see paragraph 23). in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President (!)
OJL39,13.2.1975,p.1.
(2) OJ L 181, 23.7.1993, p. 11.
(3) OJ L 164, 24.6.1976, p. 1.
OJ L 181, 23.7.1993, p. 15.
(5) Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1995 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop — Salonika).
29. 12. 97 I EN. ṡ Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/5 Fixed assets 1. Furniture Current assets Fixed capital 1. Stocks 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Advances 4. VAT to recover 5. Expenditure to be charged Cash accounts 1. Bank account 2. Imprest account Sums t o b e recovered Assets 1996 1 4 4 4 4 4 7 66 8 483 294 3 151.882 29 ■ 1995 941 7 10 9 251 1962 5 360 5 504 16 Liabilities 1. Own capital 2. Balance for the financial year Current liabilities 1. Salary deductions 2. Other liabilities Sums to be reused Approvals carried over Payments in progress Sums to be collected 1996 1450 1623 82 654 133 2 151 242 29 6 364 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 948 2 2 364 668 4.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 9 060
Total expenditure (b)
29.12.97 ΓΕΝ Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/7 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure 4. Expenditure not provided for Total Definitive 7 839 3 008 3 974 14 821 Payments 6 225 (79,42) 2 667.
(88,65) 2 492 (62,71) 11384 (76,81) Carry-overs 510 (6.5) 258 (8.59) 1 383 (34.8) 2 151 (14,52) Cancelled 1 104 (14,08) 83 (2,76) 99 (2,49) 1286 (8,67) Available 1287 864 2 664 10 4 825(*) 1213 (94,32) 757 (87,52) 2 229 (83,67) 10 (100,00) 4 209 (87,23) Cancelled 74 (5,68) 107 (12,38) 435 (16,33) 0 (0,00) 616 (12,77) TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 — UTILIZATION OF AVAILABLE APPPROPRI ATI ONS The figures in brackets indicate the percentage of definitive or available consulting.
1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 —CARRY-OVERS FROM THE 1996 INITIAL BUDGET Staff Administrative expenditure Operational expenditure Carry-over from 1996 509 8 3 258 0 4 3 1 383 122 Carry-over as percentage of initial budget 6,5 8,59 34.8 14.52 Carry-overs paid out 1. 1. to 31. 3. 97 254 4 0 5 168 2 5 4 574 599 997 258 (in ECU) Percentage of 1996 carry-over used by 31. 3. 97 49.89 65.04 41.54 46.36 expenditure Total Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by Cedefop.
2 151 048 (ECU 1000)
C 393/8 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING The nature of the observations of the Court of Auditors makes it possible for the Management Board of the Centre to react in a direct manner.
The board will follow the structure of the Court's observations and conclusions.
The numbering of the annotated paragraphs corresponds to that used in the Court's report.
12. The Centre thanks the Court for the understanding shows for the indicated transfers, which were necessary for smooth functioning in the Greek context and points out the exceptional nature of these operations which will not recur under normal circumstances.
16. Concerning the procedure to call for tenders the following points should be taken into account: (a) Some ongoing contracts are based on earlier calls for interest and for tenders.
In the case of the documentary network, for which contracts are most often above ECU 12 000, these were signed in most cases with the same specialized institutions as in.previous years.
A high degree of continuity is needed in this work and a yearly call for tenders with the probability of frequent changes in contracts would be very disruptive and, due to the need for training and a period of introduction, inefficient.
Nevertheless the performance of the contracts is carefully evaluated and a call for tenders (on the basis of the call for interest recently made by the"Centre) will be launched in cases where it is considered that this performance is not satisfactory. (b) Contracts for preparing new monographs preparing the vocational education and training systems in the Member States (or for updating existing ones) are subject to the usual rules, i.e. a restricted invitation to tender is organized.
In the case of the monographs, this list is drawn up following consultation with members of the Management Board.
An exception to this rule was made during 1995 and 1996 in relation to monographs concerning the new Member States and the EEA countries, when it was thought more approach to take the decision directly following consultation with members of the Management Board.
As planned, the Centre launched a general call for an expression of interest for participation in networks and the performance of study contracts.
This was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities (C 214 of 16 July 1997) and the results of this call are now being processed.
17. Delays in completeing transactions in relation to contracts in many cases derive from Defective administrative procedures, especially the failure of contracts to forward in time the necessary comments for payment. 17. Delays in completeing transactions in relation to contracts in many cases derive from Defective administrative procedures, especially the failure of contracts to forward in time the necessary comments for payment.
Delays were also incurred sometimes in signing contracts, allowing work on them to begin only some months after the date initially planned which had knock-on effects.
In other cases delays were due to the need for intensive and time-consuming discussion between the contractor and Cedefop on the basis of the contract's. draft report.
In cases in which the contracting institution may be co-funding the activity itself, or maintaining some funding from another source, Cedefop cannot always dictate the timetable.
This is especially so, when the price that Cedefop is paying is lower than the market might dictate for the work involved.
Nevertheless, Cedefop will try to avoid delays.
In the case of unreasonable delays the Centre indicators to the contracts that these imply serious disadvantages for them, as far as the prospects for future cooperation are Concerned.
The new list of interested persons/institutions, which will be the result of the recent call for expression of interest, should enhance the options available to the Centre for the future award of contracts and therefore make it easier to insist that contracts and their institutions be comprehensively with the rules and timetable laid down.
A business-like approach will be maintained.
19. The Management Board notes the improvements in 1996 and consider that further progress is possible.
It wants to accomplish its effects to that end.
The Centre has improved its procedure by adding to every quarter to draft from the Commission submit a detailed statement with respect to the current supply of means of payment and the total payments anticipated during the subsequent four months.
The difference between these shows the balance of the real demand and, as a result, a permanent excessive cash balance will be avoided.
20. The Centre indirectly initiated action after the audit of the Court of Auditors and is pressing for reimbursement.
The corresponding records for declaring from the German financial authorities the value-added tax (VAT) paid in 1995 and 1996 by the Centre have been submitted.
The Centre has made contact with the responsible tax authorities in Greece and has been informed in detail on the procedure and appropriate preparation of the records for specifying value-added tax
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/9 (VAT) paid in previous years.
In the mean time, the records-concerning the financial years 1995 and 1996 have been prepared and anticipated to the authorities.
21. The Centre draws to mind that — the quickly refurbished temporary provisions are not an optimal. — solution (e.g. the available surface area is only +/-one third the size of the future new building), — new needs after Cedefop's relocation (particularly, investment in the infrastructure for electronic equipment), — in the initial agreement nor the Greek law is clear on who should be such costs.
Legal advice confirmed the uncertainty.
The Centre had to make modifications to run operations efficiently.
The Centre acknowledges that it would have been better to make arrangements beforehand on any additional investment.
The owner has taken note of these additional investments made by Cedefop and has shown a generous attitude in new issues.
The Centre also wants to try to receive compensation in the sections at the end of the present rental contract.
23. The Centre achieves that the preparation time was very long, but is confident that matters will now progress rapidly.
The calendar for the coming period delivered by the Greek authorities is as follows: Calendar with main events and dates for Cedefop's new building Selection of the winner of the call for tenders in the second round of tenders Implementation of the infrastructure work Foundation stonelaid by Mr Pangalos, Foreign Affairs Minister Signing of the contract Estimated total time for completing the work Expected completion of the project The Centre expects that the Budget Authority will lift the reserve in the 1997 budget and that the Centre will be able to complete with its contract obligations vis-à-vis the Greek Government.
Hopefully, the progress will be substantial enough to pay the third implementation before the end of 1997.
This would also be of importance because in the budget proposal of 1998 there is no request for another installation.
24—25. There are indeed many new staff members recruited and several persons working in the Centre on different contracts on top of the table of posts.
The social measures related to the transfer came to an end (May 1997) and the Management Board will assess the staff situation at the end of 1997.
30 July 1997 In progress 6 September 1997 30 October 1997 460 calendar days 10 May 1999 at the latest 26. The expectations are that the results of this investigation will not have consequences for the Centre.
27. As explained, a new extensive call for interest has been undertaken with success.
28. This situation has been improving over the last years and this trend hopefully willcontinue in 1997.
29. The Centre did its utmost, and will continue to do so, to ensure that it will have a high-quality new building and to maintain good value for good money.
The cost of the new building could be less than the initial estimates.
The prospects are positive (see paragraph 23).
12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12 — 12
29. 12. 97 [~.N~1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/11 THE FINANCIAL STATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is addressed to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (l) as amended by Article 1 (4) of Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 (2).
2. The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year ended 31 December 1996.
In agreement with Article 1 (16) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76(4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Administrative Board.
This responsibility included the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for pursuant to Article 1 (52), (54) and (55) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (4).
3. The Court undertook its audit in accord with generally accepted international auditing standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context and, accordingly, carried out search tests of the accounting records and search other procedures as the Court deemed necessary in the circumstances.
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996 are reliable and the underlying transactions are, taken as a whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Foundation for the Improvement in Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (5) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of contributing 'to the planning and establishment of better living and working conditions through action designed to increase and disseminate knowledge to assist this development'.
The Dublin Foundation common operations in 1976.
Scope of the audit 6. The Court of Auditors has examined the accounts and financial management of the Dublin Foundation for the financial year 1996 in agreement with the commissions of the relevant regulations(6).
A review of the cooperation with the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao and Directorate-General V of the Commission in the area of health and safety was also carried out.
Financial data 7. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the financial statements of the Foundation.
Available estimates for the financial year 1996 amounted to ECU 13.8 million.
Commitments entered into into proportion to ECU 10,5 million in payments and ECU 3,1 million in carry-overs to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 0,2 million having been cancelled.
Approvals carried over from the previous year gave rise to ECU 2.9 million in payments and ECU 0.1 million in cancellations.
Table 3 attached to this report gives an analysis by title of the utilization of the approaches for the year and for those carried over from 1995.
Follow up of previous observations Separation of duties 8. There is still an inadequate separation of duties between the authorizing officer and the accounting officer (7), contravening Article 1 (15) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 between the authorizing officer and the accounting officer (EEC) No 1417/76. Imprest account 9. Last year the Court recommended that the use of the imprest account be limited to following or small expenses, where the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
At the time of the audit in April 1997 a written definition of leaving and small expenses still had not been established by the Foundation in consultation, with the Financial Controller.
Transfers of approvals between titles 10. The Court welcomes the fact that no transfers of approvals between titles were made during 1996.
The Court has criticalized search transfers in previous years (8).
Mission Expenses 11. Some improvements have been made to strengthen the controls and monitoring of the results of missions.
The Foundation should continue its efforts so as to ensure that:
C 393/12 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 — for all missions a report stating the times of meetings, persons met and the results of the meeting is prepared.
The report should be reviewed by a senior member of staff and filed centrally, — where possible, more than one meeting should be arranged during a mission to Brussels in order to avoid the same staff member going to Brussels on successful weeks, — other means of communication, including tele during one meeting, should be severely opposed, especially when communicating with persons in Brussels already well known.
Study contracts 12. The audit team of the Court followed up last year's observation regarding delays in the submission of work by contracts.
The minutes of the program management meetings did not contain any evidence of a review of report deadlines.
A summary of the information supplied by the Foundation during the audit is shown in Table 4 and demonstrates the need for a formalization of follow and up procedures.
Management of health and safety Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao approved its activities in September 1996.
'Health and safety' was in the Foundation's programme of work for 1996, but was replaced in the programme of work for 1997 with 'Health and well 'being'.
There is an urgent need for a clear and detailed M emorandum of understanding (currently being negotiated) to be agreed on by both satellite agencies.
This should maximize cooperation and exclude any overlap in activities.
17. Formal contacts already exists at administrative level, notably through both directors attending the other's Administrative Board meetings as an observer.
Links need to be extended to the research manager level in order to ensure full coordination.
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. Directorate F of DG V, 'Public Health and Safety at Work', makes use of some of the Foundation's research within this specialized field.
While maintaining the present independence of the Foundation's Administrative Board, there is a need to make more effective to ensure that its output is as useful as possible to DG V/F in terms of content and timing.
DG V/F is unable to attend all meetings concerning specific study contracts.
It would therefore be useful to hold period meetings at which the whole range of studies which may be concerned DG V/F can be discussed.
Conclusion 19. There is an inadequate separation of duties between accounting officer and authorizing officer (see paragraph 8).
20. The use of the imprest account should be regularized (see paragraph 9).
21. Controls over mission expenditure and the monitoring of study contracts should be tightened (see paragraphs 11 and 12).
22. Cooperation and communication with the Bilbao Agency and DG V/F in the fields of 'Health and safety at work' and 'Health and well-being' should be strengthened (see paragraphs 16 to 18).
Budgetary implementation and the expenditure account Transfer of appropriations revenue and 13. The value of transfers of appropriations between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 1 366 000 (9.9% of appropriations entered in the budget), down from ECU 1 494 000 (11.?·%) in 1995.
Carry-overs and cancellations of approvals 14. Table 3 shows that the payment rate is 76 % for the account as a whole, but only 55 % for Title 3 Operating Expenditure'.
This is in line with previous years and is due to the fact that studies are usually paid in three events over the period foreseen in their contracts.
Revenue 15. The EU subsidiary for the Foundation for 1996 was ECU 13.4 million.
The amount actually requested and received was ECU 12 895 632.
The funds were requested as required by the Council Regulations and in line with a cash flow forecast, as previously recommended by the Court.
29. 12. 97'1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities'C 393/13 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 and 13 November 1997.
(2) OJ L 181, 23.7.93, p. 13.
(4) OJ L 164, 24.6.76, p. 16.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 published on 30 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30.5.1975).
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30.5.1975) on the creation of the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23.7.1993).
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of l'June 1976 (OJ L 164, 24.6.1976) on the financial commissions applying to the Foundation, as attached by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23.7.1993) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of l'June 1976 (OJ L 164, 24.6.1976) on the financial commissions applying to the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23.7.1993).
(7) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 8.
(8) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 10 and Dublin Foundation annual report 1994, paragraph 3.2.
For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President
C 393/14 1 EN I - Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Assets 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Mission advantage 4. Miscellaneous advances 5. Bank charges Cash accounts Bank account — ECU — Main (IR £) — Imprest (IR £) 1996 7106 1 5 5 1 38 337 3 9 2 440 794 204 1995 7106 1350 23 306 9 1 —' 1520 190 245 Liabilities 1996 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 8 479 - 2 040 — 18 306 224 3 012 751 10 750 Fixed assets 1. Buildings 2. Furniture Current assets 1. Stocks Fixed capital 10 484 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by 'the Dublin Foundation.
10 484 - ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 10 750 1. Own capital 8 695 2. Balance for the financial year - 2 8 8 3. Balance from the previous year - 2 040 Current liabilities Salary reductions 24 Revenue to be collected 336 Sums to be reused ■ 209 Approvals carried over 3 098 Payments in progress 450
C 393/16 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 — UTILIIZATION OF AVAILABLE APPROPRIATIONS Definitive 5 950 1 170 6 680 13 800 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation.
Cancelled '50 (0.8) 16 (1.4) 130 (1.9) 196 (1.4) Available 28 177 2 807 3 012 Total The figures in brackets indicate the percentage of definitive or available approaches.
Year 1995 1996 Total contracts (') 110 62 Deadlines not observed (2) 57 42 Percentage (2)/(') 52 68 Payments 5 877 (98.8) 976 (83.4) 3 653 (54.7) Carry-overs 23 27 (96.4) 174 (98.3) 2 669 (95.1) 2 870 (95.3) Caitcelled 1 (3.6) 3 (1.7) 138 (4.9) 142 (4.7) 10 506 (76.1) 1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments - (0.4) 178'(15.2) 2 897 (43.4) Total 172 99 58 (1) For 1996 only those contracts for which the contract deadline was prior to 31 January 1997 have been included.
(2) Only cases where reports were shown as received over one month after the deadline have j)een included.
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation.
3 098 (22.5) TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 — RESPECT OF STUDY CONTRACT DEADLINES'(ECU 1 000)
29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/17 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS Separation of duties 8. The Foundation would ask the Court to note that the two functions of authorizing and accounting officers are carried out separately by different individuals: a residual problem of separation of93ties is limited to data input to the accounting system.
This problem will be resolved when the Foundation contains delivery of a new system.
The Foundation is in contact with the Commission services with regard to the feasibility of the application of the Commission's Sincom 2 system to the Foundation's accounting requirements. ~ - Imprest account 9. During 1996 the Foundation's use of the imprest account was, in practice, in accord with the recommendation of the Court, limited to ongoing or small expenses.
The Foundation, in June 1997 in consultation with the Financial Controller, established a written definition with regard to these outputs.
Mission expenses 11. In 1996, the Foundation further developed existing procedures with regard to mission reports.
This process will continue and will undertake the suggestions of the Court.
The Foundation continuously looks to accept the optimum number of meetings during a particular mission.
The Court's comments regarding missions to Brussels are, however, noted.
Following the successful completion of a pilot scheme during 1996 the Foundation has now installed a tele-conferencing facility.
It is intended to review the utility of this facility at the end of a trial period at which time further decisions will be taken, based on a cost analysis, considering the value of acquiring more extensive and sophisticated video-conferencing equipment.
Study contracts 12. Rather than the minutes of the programme management meetings have not recorded the situation on specific contract deadlines, search discussions on each contract take place at every meeting and approach action is taken.
With regard to search recording the Foundation is now establishing an improved system for formalization of follow-up procedures in order to present a more realistic picture.of the situation.
Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The memorandum of Understanding currently under consideration is considered as a priority item by the Foundation.
The establishment of links at research-manager level has also commanded.
These will be intentional in line with any increase in activities undertaken by the Bilbao Agency.
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. The Foundation.is very cognisant of the need for its output to be relevant to the work of DG V. The Commission is represented on the Foundation's Administrative Board by the Deputy-Director-General of DG V. Various forms of working relations have been established with the Directorates of DG V, including mutual participation in working groups as appropriate.
Specifically through the office of the Director of DG V/F the Foundation has regular contacts with officials in the various units within DG V/F. Presentation of aspects of the Foundation's work to DG V officials is provided for within the Foundation's operational activities.
The Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work in Luxembourg is also kept informed of the Foundation's program and its results.
More generally there is a flow of relevant documentation from the Foundation to DG V •in relation to the results of the work programs.
The Court's acknowledgement that DG V/F is frequently unable to attend meetings related to specific study contracts is noted.
The Foundation is fully open to alternative proposals from DG V/F with regard to utilization of the Foundation's output.
C 393/18 I EN [Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEÄ, London) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/03) 1.1.
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, pursuant to Article 57 (10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (*).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial year 1996.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in agreement with Article 57 (7) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 (l).
His responsibility includes the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in agreement with thé internal financial provisions provided for in Article 57 (11) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
The Court conducted its audit in agreement with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are appropriate to the Community context.
It examined the account books and records and carried out search additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary.
The financial statements concerning the financial year 1996 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions as a whole are guaranteed.
MAIN OBSERVATIONS CONCERNING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE EVALUATION OF MEDICAL · PRODUCTS (EMEA, LONDON) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budgetary accounts 1.5.
The Agency's budgetary accounts do not enable the principal of the inviolability of the accounts to be guaranteed, as a posteriori modifications are possible and undetectable.
Furthermore, the accounts do not make it possible to detect cases of spending in excess of available cases.
The current system does not allow the authorizing officer to input accounting data (proposals for commitments and payment orders) to the computer.
These data are recorded by the accounting officer in the accounts for the record (temporary freeze) before being approved by the Financial Controller.
This practice does not provide accurate information on the accounts in real time.
As the Sincom 2 system, which is supplied to replace the present accounting system, is not yet operational, an alternative solution should preferably be sound without delay.
General accounts — analytical 1.7.
The general accounts software that is currently used is insufficient for the Agency's needs and is separate from the budgetary accounts system.
Furthermore, the Agency has no system of analytical accounts, which is however indispensable if one wishes to establish which the scale of fees laid down by the Council (3) adequately covers the costs of evaluation.
Use of appropriation.
1.8. The approvals carried forward from 1995 to 1996 totaled ECU 5.9 million.
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million (29 %) was cancelled.
ECU 0.9 million of 1995 appliances made available for use but not used in 1996 were also cancelled. 1.9.
Only 79.6% of current appropriations (ECU 22.6 million before the SAB and ECU 17.9 million after a reduction made following the adoption of an adoption budget) were implemented and 20.7% were cancelled (ECU 4.7 million).
The main reason for this was the impossibility of recruiting staff in good time (only 65 % of the posts for which provision had been made); a second reason was the reduction in license applications and in the corresponding studies.
1.10. The fees carried forward from 1996 to 1997 totaled ECU 4.8 million.
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million and ECU 2.8 million concerned Titles II (administrative expenditure) and III (operational expenditure).
In the case of Title II, ECU 1.1 million of the licensed purchases of equipment based on new technology.
In the case of Title III, ECU 1.3 million concerned fees to be paid to the inspectors during examinations (started in 1996 and completed in 1997) and ECU 0.8 million was for orphan drugs.
29.'
12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/19 Imprest account 1.11.
Contrary to accounting principles, a loss of ECU 0.02 million in 1994 was listed under expenditure to be settled in 1995 and 1996. ^ Revenue; subsidies; own resources 1.12.
The total révenue actually collected, i.e. ECU 18.4 million, represents 81 % of the amount for which the budget initially provided.
The fees collected to ECU 7 million.
Only 73% of the amount initially provided for could be collected and checked.
The balance sheet shows ECU 0.9 million of fees due that have not yet been validated and established in agreement with Article 5 (3) of the Agency's Financial Regulation. 1.14.
In 1997, the Agency adopted a new computer system for revenue.
This system will be examined during the next Court audit.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997.
OJ L 214, 24.';
8. 1993, p. 18.
(2) Pursuant to Article 57 (9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 the accounts for all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 26 March 1997, on which date they were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and forwarded to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 31 March 1997.
The short fornì of these financial statements is presented in the tables annexed to this report.
(3) OJ L 35, 15.2.1995.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President C 393/20 1 EN 급 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Assets Equipment and furniture 1996 1 893 1 893 0 147 728 113 1995 1394 1394 0 21 199 937 1 157 8 249 8 249 10 800 Liabilities Capital (l) Balance for the year ^ Current liabilities 1996 1 893 4 583 6 476 1620 3 152 328 8 190 895 314 728 7 235 13 711 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 1394 1551 2 945 2 350 3 564 1226 41 85 390 0 199 7 855 10 800 Fixed assets Fixed capital Current assets Commission subsidiary 157 214 728 7 235 13 711 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 1394 1551 2 945 2 350 3 564 1226 41 85 390 0 199 755 10 800 Fixed assets Fixed capital Current assets Commission 1394 314 826 728 7 428 790 614 728 994 7 235 13 711 (in ECU 1 000)
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 Subtotal Subtotal 988 Subtotal 756 10 074 10 830 13 711 Subtotal
29. 12. 97 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/21 TABLE 2 REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue Subsidy received from the Commission Fees Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff — Budget Title I Payments Approvals carried over Total revenue 1996 11 000 7 004 372 18 376 6 593 263 2 858 1698 3 650 2 811 138 18 011 365 1 551 2 667 4 583 (ECU 1 000) 1995 10150 3 210 299 13 659 3 594 243 3 039 5 660 0 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551 Buildings, equipment and various administrative expenses — Budget Title II Payments Approvals carried over operating expenses —.
Budget Title III Payments Approvals carried over Miscellaneous expenses not included in budget Payments to be recovered Expenditure to be charged Exchange losses Outturn for the financial year Balance carried over from previous year Approvals carried over from previous year, cancelled Total expenses Balance to be carried over Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
In the absence of a commercial computerized system which meets the requirements of the Financial Regulation and until the new SI2 system, developed by the Commission, which the Agencies are in the process of adapting to their needs, is available, the Agency is managing its budget accounts using Excel software.
This software ensures that the information required for the sound management of the budget is always available and it provides the Agency's management with information which is relevant and up-to-date.
The software verifiers budget appropriation, commitments, orders, frozen appropriation and payments.
The existing system indicates cases spending in excess of available approvals.
The supporting document for each entry in the budget system is the document signed by the authorizing officer.
It is approved by the Financial Controller and is processed by the accounts department.
It is true that the Agency's system is not yet completely computerized and, because it does not contain in its memory changes to entries, it does, in principle, allow changes to be made without any indication thereof appears in the general accounts.
However, it should be noted that all commitments, cancellations, payment orders, etc. are prepared and classified in accordance with the rules, the relevant supporting documents being placed in an annex.
In the new system it will not be possible to make ex post facto changes without there being any indication thereof.
Like most of the Agencies, the EMEA expects that the work on the SI2 project will be completed in 1997 and that the system will be made available.
The new system will allow the general accounts to be better integrated with the budget accounts.
Together with the other Agencies, the EMEA issues an invitation to tender two years ago for compatible software; the result was disappointing.
The EMEA anticipates that the SI2 system, adapted to the needs of the Agency, will be available by the end of 1997.
1.7. On 5 February 1997 the Management Board adopted a report on the cost of operational activities, which was forwarded to the Commission.
The Agency is busy structuring its accounts system so as to include analytical accounts.
In addition, a pilot program for the electronic recording of activities has been started. 1.8.
The sum of ECU 0.9 million in 1995 in the form of acceptances made available for use but not used in 1996 notably to Article 204 (fitting-out of premises).
As these approaches could not be transferred and as no significant fitting-out work was carried out in 1996, the sum in question was cancelled.
1.11. Article 5 of the Financial Regulation stipulates that expenditure for which authorization claims the Financial Controller no later than 31 December, and for which the corresponding payments are made no later than the following 15 January, will be entered in the accounts for the financial year which is coming to a close.
Following the imprecise interpretation of these commissions in 1994 a sum of ECU 16 915,22. was imputed to the imprest account.
Following discussions with the Court's auditors the sum in question was settled in the 1997 accounts.
1.13. Even if, with more experience in the field, the Agency was able to improve its estimates of the volume of dossiers to be received, taking account also of the seasonal nature of their submission, the Agency would still be no more able in the future than it is at present to formulate, one year in advance, exact estimates of the plans of the pharmaceutical industry and therefor of the amount which might be expected from fees.
These uncertainties mean that the Agency is required to pursue a cautious policy with respect to expenditure.
29.12.97 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/23 REPORT on the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the International Market (OHI M, Alicante) (Financial year 1996), together with the Office's replies (97/C 393/04) 1.1.
This report is addressed to the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonization in the I nternal Market pursuant to Article 137 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 C).
The Court has examined the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the I nternal Market for the financial year 1996.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office in accordance with the requirements of Article 119(2) (c) of Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2).
His responsibilities include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (3) in agreement with the internal financial rules, as provided for by Article 137 of Regulation (EC) No 40/94. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court.of Auditors to audit these accounts.
The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are applicable in the Community context.
I t carried out tests on the account books and records and search' additional procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report.
1.4. For the reasons indicated in paragraphs 1.8 to 1.12 (own revenue) the Court was unable to form an opinion as to where the accounts underlying the revenue shown in the financial statements are reliable.
Subject to the above reservations, the financial statements for the financial year 1996 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, assured.
MAIN OBSERVATI ON AN IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE OFFI CE FOR HARMONI ZATI ON I N THE I NTERNAL MARKET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget accounts 1.6. OF THE BUDGET OF THE OFFI CE FOR HARMONI ZATI ON I N THE I NTERNAL MARKET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget accounts 1.6.
Although 1996 is the Office's third year of activity, the accounts department of the Office still does not have proper budget accounting software.
Monitoring the implementation of the budget is carried out with the aid of a tool which is not a real accounting system (changes may be made to entries with no no subsequent record of their having been made, absence of any link to the general accounts, etc.). 1.7.
The Office does not possess any system of analytical accounting, which is, however, indispensable for the purpose of establishing the real cost of services rendered.
Own revenue 1.8.
Before the entry into service, in May 1996, of the system set up to monitor the charges associated with the running of trade marks (Euromarc), two alternative systems had been used temporarily to monitor applications for trade-mark registrations.
The risk that is inherent in the transfer of data from these temporary systems to Euromarc is high and the Court was there impossible to form an opinion as to where search transfers were complete.
The Office was not able to demonstrate that the Euromarc system was functionally matching to the description it had given.
The Court is, therefore, not in a position to state with certainty that the reliability of the system is assured.
The new description drawn up by the Office reached the Court too late for it to be able to carry out the additional work that was necessary to remove this uncertainty.
For reasons which are mainly due to the uncertainty of Euromarc and the complexity of the THE regulations, long delays in dealing with applications were observed.
Some clients complicated to the Office on this account.
Moreover, the accumulated delay prevented the entry of more than ECU 12.4 million of revenue out of a total of ECU 45.9 million in receipts.
The difference, i.e. ECU 33,5 million, was entered under guarantees and show on the balance sheet as 'advances from clients'.
Of this amount, ECU 4.7 million was made up of payments that could not be linked to the related trade-mark applications.
Bearing in mind that new payments arrive every day, these old transactions must be identified as a matter of gravity.
C 393/24 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 ACPC 1.12.
The Office's ACPC was not created until 1 April 1996.
Several contracts for which the opinion of the ACPC would have been required, had. already been approved by the Office on the basis of an Operating Report' approved, in some cases, by a note from the legal department, acknowledging the regularity of the procedure followed.
Search notes can, under no circummstances, replace the opinion of the ACPC.
Approvals carried over; cancellations; transfers 1.13.
Payments carried over to 1997 totaled ECU 14,5 million (total automatic carry-overs), i.e. 44,8 % of the total of ECU,32,4 million of appropriations for the financial year.
These approaches carried forward originated in the large volume of trade-mark applications which had not been processed at the end of the year.
The total of current applications which lapsed was ECU 5.6 million, i.e. 17.3% of the applications for the financial year.
As far as the appropriations carried over from the financial year L995 are concerned ECU 4.65 million, i.e. 14.6%, lapsed (ECU 0.68 million).
Transfers of insurances to ECU 7.6 million.
The. totals quotad, as well as the approaches carried over to the financial year 1997 and the volume of revenue received, show the accuracy of the budget estimates for the financial year 1996.
An amendment of the initial budget estimates should have been made during the financial year.
Buildings 1.16.
The Office continues to occupy a building longing to the Spanish authorities and placed at its disposal free of charge.
However, no contract exists in this respect.
As far as the final location is concerned, the Office has opened nogotiations in respect of a proposed acquisition and has entered an initial amount in the budget for supervisory work.
1.17. It must be emphasized that the Office must ensure that the necessary procedures are available before a legal commitment is entered into.
(2) OJ L 11, 14.1.1994, p. 30.
(3) Pursuant to Article 137 (1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts of all the Office's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 21 February 1997.
These accounts were received by the Court on 25 February 1997.
The short form of these financial statements is to be found in the tables Annexed to this report.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President 29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/25 Fixed assets Fixed capital Installations and furniture Movable equipment Computer equipment Intangible assets Current assets Subtotal Capital 0 2 412 Balance for the year (4 318) Securities and guarantees received 3 Other long-term liabilities 43 Subtotal (2) (1 860) Current liabilities Automatic carry-overs of 14 517 approvals Revenue for use 69 Institutions 478 Sundry accounts due 35 Balance of Commission subordinate (3) 6 289 VAT and charges to be recovered 429 Advances from clients 33 511 Subtotal 55 328 Total liabilities 53 468 Commission assets Sundry accounts receiveable VAT and charges to be recovered.
Cash accounts Bank — current accounts Imprest account Subtotal Subtotal Total assets "1996 383 48 1 890 91 2 412 6 289 42 429 6 760 44 291 5 44 296 53 468 1995 569 48 162 779 3 275 26 169 3 470 1 863 16 1 879 6128 Liabilities 1996.
(2) The negative total of the balance for the year and capital does not constitute a loss of capital.
It is the result of applying the Financial Regulation in respect of revenue (only revenue which has been collected) and expenditure (payments plus revenue carried over).
(3) In the financial statements for the financial year 1995, the amount of Commission submission still to be paid at the end of the financial year is listed as revenue.
With effect from the financial year 1996, in agreement with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the capabilities. '
Source: Drawn up-by the Court, on the basis of information supplied by the Office.
The exchange rate of the rate of the interest rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the interest rate on the exchange rate of the exchange rate on the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate on the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate on the exchange of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange of the exchange rate of the exchange rate of the exchange of the exchange rate of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange rate of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange on the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange on the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange on the exchange on the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange between the exchange between the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of the exchange of
With effect from the financial year 1996, in agreement with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities..
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/27 REPLIES OF THE OFFICE FOR HARMONIZATION IN THE INTERNAL MARKET 1.4.
Own revenue The payment of the fees and charges associated with the running and registration of a Community trade-mark is the final step in a lengthy procedure, which is laid down in Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993.
Between the time a trade-mark application is filed and the time the corresponding charges are entered in the accounts there is usually an interval of two months, in the course of which the case is handled by at least three different types of staff.
The whole process is computerized and each category of staff involved is authorized to access the computer system which covers the budgets for which they are responsible.
In order to be able to cover in a limited amount of time (two to three days) all the days involved from receipt of application to entry in the accounts of the charges, it is absolutely essential that the cases selected at the fromset receive priority treatment.
This is possible providing two conditions are met: 1. that a single user is authorized, temporarily and by way of exception, to have access to all computer systems required to complete all the stages, up to entry in the accounts, and 2. that the demonstration of the accelerated procedure takes place in a test environment in order that there may be all the flexibility of use required without the production base being contaminated.
During the visit of the auditors in February 1997 it was not possible to carry out such a demonstration in the time available for technical reasons.
Measures have already been put in place to ensure that a complete presentation of the revenue payment system can be made during the auditors' visit which is planned for October 1997.
Budget accounts Like the other Agencies, the OHIM is is awaiting the final version of the Sincom 2 budget accounting software.
This software thought to be available towards the end of 1997.
Once the OHIM receives the software, it will be brought into use over a period of a few months.
Analytical accounts The Office will start to establish analytical accounts for certain areas of activity at the beginning of 1998, when it will have a sufficiently broad and stable production base in certain sectors to be able to establish realistic standards.
Own revenue — change of system While changing over to the final system for monitoring applications and charges, the Office verified extremely thoroughly that the data transferred were consistent.
Moreover, bank reviews confirmed the results of the transfer.
The Office there consider that the transfer was carriaged out correctly.
1.9 — 1.10.
System for the payment of charges See reply to paragraph 1.4.
Delay hi the identification/entry of payments On account of the large number of applications received in 1996 (43 000 rarer than the 15 000 anticipated), the Office built up a certain backlog in 1996 in the entry of application charges.
The Office has now has almost caught up with this backlog.
As regards the ECU 4,7 million made up of non-identified payments, the situation has been been rectified since March 1997, as intended and explained to the Court's auditors.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
At present, the time-lag between the receipt of a queue by the OHIM and its identification and transfer to the bank is six days.
C 393/28 ΓΕΝ~1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 1.13 ACPC The ACPC began operating as soon as the Office's Financial Regulation and the implementing rules applicable to the Financial Regulation, which govern the composition of the ACPC, entered into force.
Before the creation of the ACPC the OHI M had no alternative but to follow the procedure which it did, namely to consult the legal department in respect of contracts exceeding a threshold of ECU 42 000, in order to ensure that the procurement procedure was in accord with the rules applicable to the conclusion of public contracts.
In the case of sizeable contracts, the OHI M was completed during this transitional period to use the contracts of the other institutions and of the Commission in particular, in order to benefit from the legal guarantee attached to such contracts and the economies of scale which necessarily result.
Approvals carried over A relatively large amount of approvals were carried over in 1996.
80% of the carry-overs in question related to procedural expenditure (searches/translation/publication, etc.).
In agreement with Article 29 of the Financial Regulation, the Office must commit the procedural expenses arising from Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 on the Community trade-mark the moment application charges are entered in the accounts.
This is effectively unavoidable expenditure, the implementation of which is directly linked to the collection of the application charges.
Clearly, during this start-up phase, taking into account the fact that the number of applications was much higher than antitipated (+ 280 %), the discrepancy between the commitment of procedural expenditure and the actual implementation of the procedures in question is much greater than during normal operation.
This situation is progressively being regularized; in 1997 appropriations carried over in respect of procedural expenditure will be significantly less.
Lapsed approaches/transfers of approaches The 1996 budget was drawn up at the end of June 1994 and submitted to the Budgetary Authority in February 1995.
At that stage, there was nothing to suggest that the OHIM would be faced with such a number of trade-mark applications.
In June and September 1996 the OHI M informed its Budget Committee of how the situation was developing, drawing its intention to the budgetary consequences.
It should be noted that some of the.lapsed approaches come under Chapter 1 1 and relay in particular to Heading 1 1 3 3 (Constitution or maintenance of pension rights for temporary staff) (ECU 1 031 000).
These approaches were entered in the budget at the request of the Commission in order to cover the employees' contribution to pensions paid to staff (it was said that this entry was contrary to the staff regulations).
I n the mean time, the Commission has indicated that no pension fund exists and that no amount is due as an employee's contribution.
As regards the other Lamped appropriation, they are essentially appropriation related to procedural expenditure for which it was impossible to make commitments in 1996 due to lack of time. As regards the other Lamped appropriation, they are essentially appropriation related to procedural expenditure for which it was impossible to make commitments in 1996 due to lack of time.
Building There is no lease contract between the Spanish authorities and the OHI M. for the later's occupation of its temporary seat at 20 Avenida de Aguilera.
There is, however, a document entitled 'Acte de remise des clés du siège provisoire' (Deed of delivery of keys to the temporary seat), which was signed on 25 February 1994 by the Cosoami and the OHIM and which provides for the OHI M to occupy the temporary seat until it is able to occupy the final seat.
Final seat The OHI M has taken note of the Court's observation concerns the availability of admissions for the acquisition of the final seat.
Its Budget Committee has, however, approved the acquisition of the first phase of the final seat by means of bank loan financing.
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/29 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/05) 1.1.
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency, pursuant to Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (l).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 1996.
The Court carried out tests on the account books and records and also search additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The observations set out in paragraphs 1.6 to 1.15 show that there are accounting practices in use at the Agency which are not consistent with the regulations.
There are also certainatums for which no regulation could be given.
Subject to the above reservations, the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 1996 are - reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, guaranteed. of accounts.
No search reconciliation was made during the financial year 1996.
Furthermore, for the financial year 1996, such reconciliation was required by the consolidation of a substantial proportion of the general account entries (the variable budget accounts were grouped into five major expenses accounts in the general accounts; several non-budget entries concerning variable credit or debit operations in respect of staff were also grouped together in a single account in the general accounts).
Another weakness of this accounting system is the impossibility of checking a posteriori the level of acceptances during the year and true of ensuring that available acceptances have not been experienced.
1.8. Furthermore, it was noted that a balance of approximately ECU 0.02 million was shown on the balance sheet (sundry accounts payable) for which the Agency was unable to provide the Court with the appropriate supporting documents (see consolidation problem mented in paragraph 1.6).
The Agency's budget accounts are still behind and could not provide the authorizing officers and the Financial Controller with the information they need if the former are to commit themselves legally in respect of third parties and the later to give his approval to the proposals for commitments that are submitted to him.
For this reason, the Agency has had to set up a parallel system for monitoring the implementation of the budget so as not to exclude available approaches, as it did during the previous financial year (see report on the implementation of the 1995 budget), and to enable the authorizing officers to check at all times the level of commitment of the approaches for which they are responsible (failure to observe Articles 58 and 59 of the implementing provisions for the Commission's Financial Regulation, which is also applicable to the EEA, as the Agency has not adopted its own implementing provisions).
As the Sincom 2 system is unlike to be available within a reasonable time, the Agency should preferably seek an alternative solution so as to have an effective accounting system at its disposal.
The methodology applied during the financial year 1996 comlied neither with accounting rules nor with the MAIN OBSERVATIONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (EEA, COPENHAGEN) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget and general accounts 1.6.
The accounts continue to be kept on two different computerized accounting systems: commercial software is used for the general accounts and another tool is used for the budget accounts.
This double system would require regular (at least monthly) reconciliations of the two sets CONCERNING THE
C 393/30 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Communities' financial regulations and ultimately led to the financial statements (trial balance, balance sheet and revenue and expenditure account) being submitted after the deadlines had expired.
1.12. The approach adopted by the Management Board for drawing up and submitting the financial statements is true not a relevant one.
1996 payments recorded in 1997 1.15.
Approvals carried over; contracts 1.18.
The percentage of acceptances carried forward This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRI EDMANN President
29. 12. 97 1 EN   磊 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/31 Fixed assets Assets 1996 1995 153 2 209 9 2 371 0 172._ 32 421 5 740 6 365 3 243 3 243 11979 Liabilities Fixed capital Capital C) Balance carried forward Subtotal (2) Short-term assets Non-automatic carry-overs Automatic carry-overs Accounts for use-ductions from sales Sundry accounts payable VAT refund Recovery order Suspense account Revenue receipts (3) Subtotal Total liabilities 1996 2 629 (337) (758) 89 6 126 129 15 20 28 0 6 392 12 809 12 051 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 2 371 1 844 4 215 - 989 5 997.0 0 153 172 32 421 0 7 764 11979 Equipment and equipment..
(a) The total amount of total expenditure (a) The amount of expenditure (b) The total amount of total expenditure (b) The amount of expenditure (b) The total amount of expenditure (b) The amount of expenditure (b) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of the expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of the expenditure (c) The amount of the expenditure expenditure (c) The amount of the expenditure (c) The amount of the expenditure (c) The amount of expenditure (c) The amount of the expenditure (c) The amount of the expenditure (c) The amount of the expenditure (c) The amount of the expenditure (c) The amount of the amount of the expenditure (c) The amount of the revenue (c) The amount of the revenue (c) The amount of the revenue (c) The revenue (c) The amount of the expenditure (c) The amount of the expenditure of the revenue (c) The amount of the revenue (c)
29. 12. 97 I EN ▁Muss Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/33 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY Budgetary and general accounts Point 1.6 — Budget and accounting systems The Agency covers from the paint of an integrated and automated budget and accounting system. The budget of the European Communities C 393/33 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY — Budget and general accounts Point 1.6 — Budget and accounting systems The Agency covers from the paint of an integrated and automated budget and accounting system.
C 393/34 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 and the resulting efficiency, the Agency will use SI2 for its integrated and automated budget and accounting system.
29.12.97 Ε Ν Ι Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/35 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Financial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/06) 1.1.
THE Contracts and ACPC 1.12.
C 393/36 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 tender (sometimes in the absence of a preliminary invitation to interested parties to apply).
O OJL36.12.2.1993,p.6.
OJ L 341, 30.12.1994, p. 7.
C 393/38 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Commission subsidiary Commission subsidiary eligible Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff — Title I...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
29.12.97 [EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/39 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN MONITORING CENTRE FOR DRUG AND DRUG ADDICTION
C 393/40 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 1.16.
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/41 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Financial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies (97/C 393/07) 1.1.
C 393/42 1 EN  棱 Official Journal of the European Communities' 29. 12. 97 for 1996) for certain items of expenditure was not recorded in the accounts of the Foundation (but in separate accounts).
Awarding of contracts 1.12.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President ■29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/43 Assets 1996 Computers Equipment and furniture 544 1995 326 242 0 568 24 543 0 567 3398 3 398 4 533 Liabilities Fixed capital Own capital (') Net effects Shortabilities 1996 1578 1794 3 372 665 431 3 288 350 56 432 4 9 45 5 280 8 652 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 568 1566 2 134 142 0 1985 195 75 0 0 0 2 399 4 533 Fixed assets Office supplies Current assets Sugar (commission 1995) · 543 Subsidy (commission 1996) 431 Subtotal 986 Cash assets Banks — current assets 5 312 Imprest assets 776 Subtotal) Subsidy (commission 1995) · 543 Subsidy (commission 1996)
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/45 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN TRAINING FOUNDATION 1.5.
1.12.
C 393/46 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29.12.97 be carried out for Tempus projects (Phare and Tacis) and Phare vocational training programmes.
29.12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/47 REPORT on the financial statements of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/08) 1.1.
C 393/48 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 years), these contributions are to be flat-rate and are to be calculated on the basis of each body's forecast of its translation needs.
OJ L 314, 7. 12. 1994, p. 3.
In addition, in addition, the contributions contributions from clients from clients (2) Subtotal Total liabilities from clients (2) Subtotal Total liabilities (in ECU 1 000) 1995 334 334 334 320 320 468 468 768 788 788 1122 Equipment and furniture 9 Intangible fixed fixed assets 8 Subtotal 17 Intangible fixed assets 8 Subtotal 17 Intant 17 Current assets Contributions from clients (2) Subtotal Total liabilities (in ECU 1 000) 1995 334 334 334 320 320 468 768 788 788 1122 Equipment and furniture 9 Intangible fixed fixed assets 8 Subtotal 17 Current assets Contributions from clients 259 Sundry accounts (in ECU 1 000) 1995 334 334 334 334 320 468 768 788 1122 Equipment and furniture 9 Intangible fixed assets 8 Subtotal 17 Current assets Contributions from clients 259 Sundry accounts returnable 7 Subtotal 266 Cash accounts Banks — Current 9 Intangible fixed assets 8 Subtotal assets 8 Subtotal 17 Current assets 17 Current assets Contributions from assets from clients 259 Sundry accounts 259 Sundry accounts accounts (in, ECU 1 000 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 1995 1995 ( 1995 1995) 1 2 1 2 1 8 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 2 2 1 1 2 1 1 11 9 9 1 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1) 1 1 4 1 1 4 1 1 8 8 12 4 1 4) 11 11 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 7 1 11 11) 1 1 2 1 7 1 1 9 1 1 1 1 8 2 1 1 1 1 1 11 1) 1 2 8 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 11 1 1 4 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 12 1 1 1 1 1 ( 1 1 4 1 — 1 1
IΕΝΗ Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Various revenue Own revenue Recoverable revenue (λ) Expenditure Staff — Title I Payments Approvals carried over Total revenue TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 " 1996 90 2 703 2 793 1 155 905 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 12 1095 198 1305 181 393 2 395 971 334 334 Buildings, equipment, etc. — Title I Payments 88 Approvals carried over Outturn for the financial year Outturn from previous financial year Approvals carried over and cancelled.
29.12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/51 REPLIES OF THE TRANSLATION CENTRE FOR THE BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION Budgetary accounts 1.5.
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/53 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. (') OJ L 227, 1. 9. 1994, p. 27.
C 393/54 I EN 📧 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Fixed assets Equipment and furniture Computer equipment Intangible fixed assets Current assets Sundry accounts Receivable Cash accounts Bank — current accounts Imprest account Subtotal Assets 1996 15 35 2 52 20 4 498 150 4 648 4 720 1995 24 2 26 0 3 403 3 403 3 429 Liabilities Fixed capital Own funds (x) Balance for the financial year 1996 52 3 885 3 937 472 28 283 783 4 720 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 26 3 065 3 091 97 ■ 37 204 338 3 429 Subtotal Subtotals Total assets in the financial year 1996 2 885 3 937 472 4 283 783 4 720 (in ECU 1 000)
29. 12. 97 I EN.
C 393/56 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE COMMUNITY PLANT VARIETY OFFICE The main points raised by the Court in this document on the execution of the budget for these years relate to the absence of: — effective IT for general and budgetary accounting, — a formal Financial Controller, a Consultative Committee on Procurement and Contracts.
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/57 President of the Council had to stand in as'mandataire', (b) no relevant purchase or tendering exercise exceeded the threshold set under the Financial Regulation of the Commission.
C 393/58 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/10) 1.1.
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/59 were also delays in the recruitment of the persons who make up the Agency's basic staff.
C 393/60 I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Fixed assets Fixed capital equipment and equipment Computer equipment Liquid assets Sundry accounts receivable Recoverable VAT and duties Own funds (l) Balance for the financial year Short-term liabilities Subtotal Cash accounts Banks — current Imprest acount Subtotal Subtotal Total assets 34 16 50 1 9 7 5 100 2 075 2 157 Approvals carried over by the Budgetary Authority Automatic carry-overs Sundry "accounts due Assets 1996 25 7 Subtotal -32 Liabilities (in ECU 1 000) 1996 32 83 5 862 234 969 76 161 2 9 5 2 157) This amount corresponds to the fixed assets.
Source:' Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Recoverable V A T and duties Subtotal Total Liabilities
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/61 TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR.1996 Total revenue (ECU 1 000) 1996 3 000 36 3 036 292 81 884.
6 3 0 319 2 206 830 830 Revenue Commission subsidiary Sundry revenue Expenditure Staff — Title I Payments Buildings, equipment, etc. — Title II Payments Approvals carried over Operating expenditure — Title III Payments.
Approvals carried over Outturn for the financial year Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
Total expenditure Balance for the financial year
C 393/62 1 EN 没 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK The Court of Auditors visited the Agency for Safety and Health at Work from 12 to 16 May 1997 and carried out the audit for the financial year 1996.
The Director presented the objectives, programs and activities carried out, under way or planned.
In order to facilitate the work of the Court, the accounts and all relevant supporting documents were made available to the Court.
The personnel files and the contracts concluded were also presented.
The Court forwarded its preliminary comments with a view to drawing up the report on the financial statements of the Agency (financial year 1996) in its letter No 001594 of 15 July 1997.
The Agency, which welcomes the conclusions drawn in paragraph 1.4 of the Court of Auditors' draft report, in so far as the Court states that the financial statements for the financial year 1996 were reliable and, on the whole, the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions were guaranteed, would like to comment on the following paragraphs.
Paragraph 1.5.
The breakdown is incomplete because when the budget was being drawn up in 1995 it was not possible to plan in detail the budgetary requirements for the financial year 1996 and to include specific amounts; this was due to the fact that the Agency was in its start-up phase.
As a result, 'token entry' was entered in most chapters.
Paragraph 1.6.
It is true that there is no documentary evidence to show that the Administrative Board of the Agency approved the amendments to the initial budget for 1996.
In order to avoid a similar situation in the future it was agreed, at the meeting of the Bureau of the Administrative Board on 5 and 6 June 1997, that the minutes of meetings would include, in addition to the account of the discussions at meetings, a document explaining the formal decisions taken, in order to facilitate their retrieval.
Paragraph 1.7.
The Agency does not endorse appropriate software for its budgetary accounts and it is is its provisionally using Excel.
In order to come over this, the Agency has joined forces with the other Agencies to analyse the feasibility of an integrated software package such as the prototype of the beta version of SI2 provided by the European Commission.
Moreover, the Agency is following with interest the progress of the software being developed by Cedefop in Salonika, which would appear to meet our needs as it is in the budget and accounting management modules as well as human resource management modules..
The Bilbao Agency will take a decision before the end of the year on the installation of one system or another, depending on the results of tests using both systems and the opinion of the supervisory bodies.
The Agency is doing all it can to improve the administration of its imprest account and in September 1997 installed the RAI software with the assistance of the EMCDDA in Lisbon.
Paragraph 1.8.
In order to make good the deficiency description by the Court of Auditors, the Agency acquired Cubic software in June 1997 which, the training of the competent staff having been completed, is already being used to keep the general accounts.
Paragraph 1.9.
It is true that the implementation of the budget for 1996 was adversely affected by the delay in the recruitment of the Director and staff for the administration unit of the Agency.
The said staff were only recruited in May 1997, when the head of the unit and two assistants (a computer expert and a financial officer) took up their posts.
This means that the gradual introduction of all the systems necessary to ensure sound financial management (staff management, budgetary and accounting management, conclusion of contracts and general services) did not begin until after the said date.
Paragraph 1.10.
At the time of the necessity on the seat of the Agency the Basque Government and the County of Vizcaya committed themselves to pay 75 % of the cost of the rent of the office building occurred by the Agency.
Despite the
29. 12. 97 1 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/63 absence of an agreement signed between the Agency and the Basque authorities to this effect, the Basque Government has, as of September 1997, paid the Agency a subsidiary of Pta 20 million and the County of Vizcaya has initiated the necessary procedures for the payment of its subsidiary of Pta 10 million.
Paragraph 1.11.
In agreement with the commissions of its Financial Regulation, the Agency is doing all it can to make good the definitions pointed out out by the Court of Auditors as regards public contracts and has recently submitted a draft Regulation for the creation of an ACPC for the opinion of the Financial Controller at the Commission and to the Court of Auditors for information; the Regulation is based, as far as possible, on the models adopted by the other Agencies.
As regards the contracts for the procurement of goods and services concluded by the Agency, notably since the audit conducted by the Court in May 1997, it should be pointed out that invitations to tender have always been conducted, even where the value of the estimated expenditure would have been allowed, private tender.
The Agency would like to ensure the Court that it is doing all it can to acquire, as quickly as possible, all the means necessary to carry out the improvements indicated by the Court of Auditors.
It would ask the Court to take account of the differences it has had in its start-up phase in respecting in full the rules arising from Financial and other regulations to which all its activities should be subject.----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTICE TO READERS In 1998 several changes to the Official Journal (OJ) L & C subscription will be introduced.
This notice aims to help paying subscribers make an informed choice about the new opportunities.
EU LAW SERVICE Starting in January 1998, the full text (including tables and graphics) of new editions of the OJ L & C will be available in all 11 languages free of charge on the Internet (http://europa.eu.int) for a period of 20 days.
OJ L&C CD-ROM In 1998 a CD-ROM version of the OJ L & C will be published in quarterly, cumulative, single-language editions.
Current subscribers to the OJ L & C who purchase the CD-ROM subscription in addition to the paper or microfiche version or CELEX will benefit from a promotional discount of 50% on the CD-ROM.
A LAN option will be available.
Individual copies of each CD-ROM can also be purchased.
FLAT FEE SUBSCRIPTION TO CELEX In Spring 1998 a flat fee subscription to CELEX will be available, offering one year's access at a fixed price (960 ECU), independent of consumption.
CELEX is the EU's official legal database offering unparallel coverage of EU legislation since 1951 (http://europa.eu.int/celex).
PENALTIES FOR LATE RENEWALS OF PAPER SUBSCRIPTION Despatch of the paper version of the OJ L & C will be stopped on 31 January 1998 to all paying subscribers who have not renewed their subscription by then.
Subscribers starting or renewing a subscription to the OJ L & C after this date may choose: (i) not to receive retroactive dispatch of missing editions, and pay only for months received; (ii) to receive the CD-ROM version of the missing editions, and pay the normal annual subscription fee; (iii) to receive the paper version of the missing editions, and pay double for each month require retroactive dispatch.
Please note it is now possible to purchase all versions of subscription to the Official Journal L & C (paper, microfiche, off-line and CELEX) from any member of the EUR,-OP sales networks, except document delivery agents.
Please contact your sales agent for further details on the above.
Price ECU 'L + C' paper version η 700' η •L + C' Recruitment microfiches notices (*) (") 595'30' OJ Supplement (Notices and public contracts) calendar year 1997 1—32 33—64 pages pages 6,50 13' More than 64 pages Price determined case by case BELGIQUE/BELGIE Moniteur beige/Belgian State blad Rue de Louvain 40'42/ Leuvenseweg 40'42 B'1000 Bnjxelles/Bnissel Tél.
(32▁Rückseite2) 552 22 11 Fax (32) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan 202/Bingslaan 202 Bingslaan 1060 Bruxelles/Brussel Tél.
(32 underestimate) 538 51 69 Fax (32 51) 538 08 41 E-mail: jean.de.lannoy @ infoboard.be Librairie européenne/ Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat 244 B.1040 Bruxelles/Brussel Tél.
(32글2) 295 26 39 Fax 3232 735 08 60 DANMARK J. H. Schultz Information A/S Herstedvang 10thinks 12 DKS 2620 Albertslund Tlf.
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 E-mail: schultz@schultz.dk URL: www.schultz.dk GERMANY Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 78-80 P.O. Box 10 05 34 D-50667 Cologne Tel. (35) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 E-mail: schultz@schultz.dk URL: www.schultz.dk GERMANY Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 78-80 P.O. Box 10 05 34 D-50667 Cologne Tel. (35) 63 63 23 00 Fax (35) 43 63 19 69 E-mail: schultz@schultz.dk URL: www.schultz.dk.dk GERMANY
49-220120 29-220 Fax 49-220 20 29-278 GREECE/ΕΑΑΔΑ G.C. Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR-105 64 Athens Tel.
30-3141 80/1/2/3 Fax 30-31 323 98 21 E-mail: elebooks@netor.gr Ι.Κ. Ελευθερουδάκης AE Διεθνθς Βιβλιοπιλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR-105 64 Αβηνσ Τηλ.
30-31-3314180/1/2/3-T---λεφα-- (30-------------------------------------------------------------------31------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(34) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (34) 575 39 98 E-mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: www.tsai.es/mprensa Boletin Oficlal del Estado Trafalgar, 27-29 E-28071 Madrid Tel. (33-33-33) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (34-33) 575 39 98 E-mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: www.tsai.es/mprensa Boletin Oficlal del Estado Trafalgar, 27-29 E-28071 Madrid Tel.
347 488 34 92 Fax (347 487 76 59 FRANCE Journal officiel Service des publications des CE 26, rue Desaix Fതപ75727 Paris Cedex 15 Tél.
(33 is) 40 58 77 01/31 Fax 33 is 40 58 77 00 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 4 is Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel. (32 is) 40 58 77 00 Tel. (33 is) 40 58 77 01/31 Fax (33 is) 40 58 77 00 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 4 is Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel. (32 is) 58 77 01/31 Fax (32 is) 40 58 77 00 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 4 is Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel.
(353%) 661 31 11 Fax 3531 11 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 1 ITALIA Licosa SpA, 1/1 Casella postale 552 1150125 Firenze Tel. (3531) 661 31 11 Fax (3531) 475 27 60 Firenze Tel. (3531) 661 31 11 Fax (3531) 661 31 11 Fax (3531) 353 (3531) 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 130125 Firenze Tel.
(39). (55)64 54 15 Fax (39)55 64 12 57 E). (39). (55) 64 12 57 E. (39) (39). (55) (55) (39) (55) (55) 64 12 57) (39) (39) (55) (55) (39) (55) (39) 54 15) (39) (55) (39) (39) 54) (39) (39) (39) (55) (39) (55) (39) (55) (39) (39) (39) (55) (39) (64) (55) (33) (39) (39) (33) (39) (39) (64) (39) (39) (64) (39) (39) (33) (39) (64) (39) (39) (55) (64) (39) (64) (55) (55) (39) (39) (64) (64) (33 (39) (39) (33) (33) (IT URL: icl382.(IT) (382.(382) (virtual_Library) (virt//Library/ bibliry/ bibliry/ bibliot/vet1/vet1/vett1) (55/vett1) (.1). (39) (39) (39) (39) (33) () (39) (55) (33) (: GRAND (39) (39) ( GRAND (55) ( GRAND (39) (39). (: GR) (38) GRAND (39) GR) (38) (39) GRAND ( GR) ( GR (39) GR) GR) GR (33) (39) (39) (38) ( GR) (33) (33 (IT (FR) (39) (39) (FR) (39) (FR) (FR (39) GR) (39) (39) GR) (39) (FR) (FR) (FR) GR) (FR) GR) (FR (FR) (IT(1 (FR) (FR (33) GR) (FR(33) (IT) (FR) (38) (FR) (39) (IT (39) (39) (FR
(352)40 10 20 Fax (352) 490 661 E-mail: mdl@pt.lu Subscriptions: Messageries Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L-2339 Luxembourg Tél.
AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlags austria and Universitâtsbuchhandlung Gmbh Siebenbrunnengasse 21 P.O. Box 1 At1050 Vienna Tel.
(43)53 161 334/340 Fax (43) 53 161 339 E'mail: ausdelivery@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net:81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa Nacional81Casa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A Ρ:1050 Lisboa Codex Tel. (43) 53 339 E'mail: ausdelivery@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net:81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa Nacional: Casa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A Ρ:1050 Lisboa Codex Tel. (43) 53 161 334/340 Fax (43) 53 161 339 E'mail: ausdelive@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.net.
(351 your letters) 495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (351 your letters) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemelnen Kirjakauppa / Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoiseplanadi 39/ Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FINuppa Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel.
(358) 121 41 Fax (358) 121 44 35 E-mail: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractor Vagen 11 PO Box 200 Ssss22100 Lund Tel. (358) 121 41 Fax (358) 121 44 35 E-mail: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractor Vagen 11 PO Box 200 Ssss22100 Lund Tel. (358) 121 41 Fax (358) 121 44 35 E-mail: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractor Vagen 11 PO Box 200 Ss.
(46einzel46)18 00 00 Fax (46-46) 18 01 25 E-mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel. (46-46) 18 00 00 Fax (46-46) 18 01 25 E-mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel. (46-46-46) 18 00 00 00 Fax (46-46-46) 18 01 25 E-mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel.
(44 (0171)873 9090 Fax (44)171) 873 8463 URL: www.tne:stationery: office.co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Blondal Skólavördustig, 2 IS:101 Reykjavik Tel. (354)55 15 650 Fax (354) 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 E terstad N:0606 Oslo Tel. (35) 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 E terstad N:0606 Oslo Tel. (35) 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 E terstad N:0606 Oslo Tel.
97 45 00 Fax (47 45 22) 97 45 45 SWITZERLAND/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstrasse 85 CH CH/8035 Zurich Tel.
435353 15 Fax (41羽1) 365 54 11 E-mail: urs.leimbacher® ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKA RE PUBLICA NIS CR 1) prodejna Konviktskâ 5 CZ-113 57Praha1 Tel. (41dejna) 5 CZ-113 57Praha1 Tel. (41-3) 54 11 Fax (41-3) 365 54 11 E-mail: urs.leimbacher® ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKA RE PUBLICA NIS CR 的 prodejna Konviktskâ 5 CZ-113 57Praha1 Tel. (41-3) 53 15 Fax (41-3) 54 15 E-mail: urs.leimbacher® ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch
(42verhältnissen2) 24 22 94 33 Fax (42:192) 24 22 94 33 E.mail: nkposp@dec.nis.cz' URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, Grivas Digenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY www.cy.cz Nicosia Tel.
(357 (357) 44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (357) 361 044 E환mail: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hâz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hâz Margitsziget PO Box 475 Hâ1396 Budapest 62 Tel. 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00: 00.
(36 NSA)11 16 061/11 16 216 Fax (36 ) 302 50 35 Eingemail: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LOA 05 Malta Tel.: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LOA 05 Malta Tel.: (36 )16 061/11 16 216 Fax: (36 ) 302 50 35 E: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LOA 05 Malta Tel.
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polona Krakowskie Przedmiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL樟00叉950 Warszawa Tel. (356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polona Krakowskie Przedmiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PLe 9950 Warszawa Tel. (356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 Tel.
(48)26 12 01 Fax (48) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dünya Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad.
(90ṛ212) 251 91 96 (90姻辅312)427 02 10 Fax (90☼212) 251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europresspress Euromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel. (90裤212) 251 91 96 (90 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel. (90) BALGARIJA Euromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford.
(1 equates to to a list of a variety of different types of types of types of different types of variety, different types of variety, different types of types of variety, different types of different types of different types of variety, different types of variety, different types of different types, different types of variety, different types of types, different types of variety of different types of variety, different types of variety, different types of different types of variety, different types of variety, different types of types of different variety, different types of different types of variety, different types, different types of group, different types of different types, different types of group, different types of group, different types of different types of group, different types of groups, different types of group, different types of groups, different groups of groups of groups, different types of group, different types of groups, different types of groups, different types of groups of group, different types of groups, different types of groups of groups, different types of group, different types of groups, different types of groups, different types of groups, different types of groups of group, different groups of groups, different types of groups, different types of groups of groups, different groups of groups, different types of groups of groups of group, different types of groups, different groups of group, groups of groups, different groups of group, different groups of groups of groups of groups, different groups of group of groups of groups of groups of group of groups of groups of group, different types of groups of groups of group of group, different groups, different groups, different types of groups of different groups of groups, groups of group of groups of group of group of groups of groups of group of groups, different types of group of groups of groups, groups, different types, different types of groups, different groups, groups, different types of groups, different groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups, different groups of groups of group of groups of group of group, different groups of groups of groups of group of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of group of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups, different groups of groups of groups of groups of group of groups of group of group, different groups, different groups of groups, groups of group of groups of group of groups, different groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of groups of group
(81演3)3234 69 21 Fax (81演3) 3234 69 15 E演mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi@japan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146 Sandten Tel.: (812 69 21.) 3234 69 21 Fax: (81,32) 3234 69 15 E,mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi.ijapan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146 Sandten Tel. (81) 3234 69 21 Fax: (81) 3234 69 15 E,mail: psijapan@gol.com Tel.: (813) 3234 69 21: Fax: (81) 3234 69 15 E,mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi2 706 2146 Sandten Tel.
(27- declares883 37 37 Fax (27-)883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611-French Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel. 4611-883 37 Fax (27-)883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611-89 Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel.
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) E-mail: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MEXICO Mundl)Prensa Mexico, SA de CV RioPânuco, 141 Delegación Cuauhtemoc ME-06500 México DF Tel. (32) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) E-mail: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com
553 56 58/60 Fax 514 67 99 E-mail: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE CORÉE Kyowa Book Company 1 F1.
OTHER COUNTRIES Please address yourself to the sales office of your choice 95 (Libras)/ 15 (Suscrpciones) 49 (Libras)/ 14 (Suscripciones) Euromedia Str.
Tel. (40.) 210 44 01/614 06 64 Fax (40.) 210 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technicka Kniznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO.81223 Bratislava 1 Tel. (40.)
(42):53 18 364 Fax (42):53 18 364 E-mail: eurap@tbb1.sltk.stuba.sk SLOVENIA Gospodarski Vestnik Zalozniska skupina d.d.
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 E)mail: belicd@gvestnik.si URL: www.gvestnik.si ISRAEL R.O.Y. International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel.
(972.93)546 14 23 Fax (972.93) 546 14 42 E懿mail: rayil@netvision.net.il Sub: Agent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel. (972.93)546 14 23 Fax (972.92) 546 14 42 E.mail: rayil@netvision.net.il Sub: Agent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel.
9 117312 Moscow Tel.(095)135 52 27 Fax 095)135 52 27 SALES AND SUBSCRIPTION PRICES Annual subscription (including normal postage) Single copies (**) More information is available on the European Union via the INTERNET: http://europa.eu.int * <H> • OFFICE FOR OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNIITIES L on 2985 LUXEMBOURG paper version 800 the CD-ROM 600 the special mailing charges are invoiced separately.
The Officia/Journal of the European Communities and all other European Communications publications on sale, other periodical or otherwise, may be ordered at the sales offices listed below.
N.B.: The subscription to the Official Journal of the European Communities also includes the 'Directory of Community Legislation in Force and other Acts of the Community Institutions' (two editions per year). (*) Only joint subscription (including delivery) are available to the L (Legislation) and C (Information and Notifications) series of the Official Journal of the European Communities. (**) The notices of open competition, which are published as annexes to the C series, are essentially available free of charge from the Commission's offices in the Member States.
For regular delivery of all notices of competition on a subscription basis a charge is made to cover postage.
SALES AND SUBSCRIPTIONS BG料1000 Sofia Tel.
(359ឈុត2) 80 46 Fax (359花2) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR睛10000 Zagreb Tel. (322) 80 46 Tel. (322) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR聂10000 Zagreb Tel. (322) 80 46 Fax (322) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR清10000 Zagreb Tel. (322) 80 46 Fax (322) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR59000 Zagreb Tel. (322) 80 46 Fax (322) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza (322) 80 46 Fax (322) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 Tel. (322) 80 46 Fax (322) 80 45 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR. (322) 80 46 Fax (322) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR花10000 Zagreb Tel. (322) 80 46 Fax (322) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 41 41 41 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd.
(385)43 03 92 Fax (385)44 40 ROMANIA 59
C 309/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the 2006 financial statements of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/11) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 63 SUPPLEMENTARY SECURITY...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
7 63 Tables1-4........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
64 Responses from the Agency.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/63 INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 (1).
The Agency's tasks are to collect and disseminate information on national and Community priorities in the field of occupational safety and health, to assist the national and Community institutions concerned in formulating and implementing appropriate measures, and to provide information on the implementation of preventive measures.
This declaration of confidence shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2), on the basis of the examination of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (3) were drawn up in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 by its Director and forwarded to the Court with a statement of the financial year's financial years and the legal and regulatory framework of the underlying accounts. were drawn up in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94.
6. The Court has a reasonable basis for the following grant declaration.
The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 are for all the main reasons.
The following remark does not call into question the Court's assessment of the Court's powers.
NOTE 7. In 2006, the Director signed 19 decisions on an amount of approximately 880 000 euros for the approval of transfers of funds from articles to articles within chapters.
Contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation (4), the necessary information was not transmitted to the Management Board.
Hence, the budget principle of the specialty has not been strictly adhered to.
On behalf of the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER President (1) OJ No.
(3)The annual annual accounts were made on4 June2007 and entered on 2 July2007 at the Court.
(4) Article 23 of the Financial Regulation.
C 309/64 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community responsibility under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994, as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005 of 24 June 2005) Management structure 1. Management Board The Agency for 2006 resources (information for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Social legislation Objectives Tasks Final budget: The establishment of links and networking: the Community and the Member States (...) pursue the improvement of living and working conditions in order to achieve improvement in the conditions of work by means of progress (...).
The objective of the Agency is to provide the Community institutions, the Member States, the social partners and the relevant technical, scientific and economic information in the field of safety and health at work, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty and the subsequent action programmes for health and safety at work, in particular to improve the collection, analysis and dissemination of information on national and Community priorities and research; the composition of EUR 14,1 million (EUR 13,7 million) The Community supports and complements Member States' work in the following fields in order to achieve the objectives of Article 136: a) to improve, in particular, the working environment for the protection of the health and safety of workers; b) to improve working conditions (...) to protect the working environment and to protect workers' health, the Agency's aim is to provide Community institutions, Member States, the social partners and the relevant stakeholders with all relevant technical, scientific and economic information in the field of safety and health at work.
Promote cooperation and exchange of information, including information on training programmes; one representative of workers' organisations from each Member State; disseminate information: (extracts from Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) provide information for the formulation and implementation of an effective policy for Community institutions and Member States, in particular as regards the impact on SMEs; 2nd Board of Directors, on 31 December 2006: Third generation information services on safety and health at work provided via the Internet. Source: information provided by the Agency.
ὂ Provision of information about pr䳳ventiv measures;  ج another representative of each group and of the Commission.
26 (20) Other posts (helpers, seconded national experts, staff),,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
Table 1 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) 1 government representative from each Member State, of which:   and strengthening the tripartite structure in the Agency's networks, one representative of employers from each Member State, 1 Community grant, Employment, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities DG: 93.5% (96 %), and, creating institutional capacity in applicant countries (PHARE programmes).
洞 miscellaneous revenue: 2%(1%). Composition 40 (40) posts provided for in the establishment plan, Chairman and 3 Vice-Chairmen of the Board of Directors, of which: 33 (32), Knowledge development:  for one coordinator per group, of which: 7 (8).
通 information material for national campaigns and campaigns in the context of the European Week 2006 ( of young workers) and 2007 (MSE); task information material for workers, safety and health in the workplace (OSH) & economic performance in the HORECA sector; 3. director From the board, on the proposal of the Commission, of these, are due to operational activities:  to information material on the monitoring of risks, including reports on research priorities in the field of OSH, biological agents and ultra-violet radiation; data collection on stress, problems due to the escalation and skin problems, and on musculoskeletal diseases in young workers in the context of the European Weeks 2006 and 2007, feasibility study for an enterprise survey appointed.
42 (35), administrative activities: Obligatory amendment by the Commission and the Advisory Committee for Safety, Hygiene and Health Protection at Work to the work programme.
The Court of Auditors' external control.
6. European Parliament on Council recommendation. 6. Council recommendation on European Parliament discharge. 6. Council recommendation on the European Parliament on the European Parliament's recommendation on the European Parliament's recommendation. 6. Council recommendation on the Council's recommendation on the European Parliament's recommendation on the Council's decision on Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's recommendation on the Council's decision on the European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's Council on the European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament's recommendation on the European Parliament's decision on the European Council on the European Parliament's decision on the European Parliament on the Council's recommendation on the European Parliament's recommendation on the European Parliament's recommendation on the European Parliament's recommendation on the European Parliament's decision on the Council's recommendation on the European Parliament's recommendation on the Council's recommendation on 6. 6.
3.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/65 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community budget 13 200 247 11 900 248 Title I Personnel Title II Expenditure in kind Title III Operational expenditure 4 556 1 524 7 367 4 080 1 481 7 025 3 831 1 060 125 600 75 28 47 Other revenue 381 61 331 313 17 Assigned revenue (1) 518 312 Assigned revenue (1) 518 407 324 194 0 206 406 7 006 Expenditure in operating operating expenditure Total 13 965 12 460 Total 13 965 12 993 10 2 663 1 005 2 825 2 155 670 Community grant Other operating expenditure 11 730 238 1 580 13 548 424 560 13 765 71 Other operating expenditure 247 Operational expenditure Short-term pre-financing 325 2 155 670 Expenditure in running expenditure 3 990 3 724 460 Total
To provide an image corresponding to the actual delays, the correct amount of EUR 518 000 is shown at this point.
Total (b) (losses) of operating assets (c = a Đ b) Total of risks and liabilities Accounting liabilities 63 1 981 2 044 58 2 448 2 507 Financial expenditure (d) Net of non-operating assets (e = d) Economic result for the financial year (f = c + e) Total of financial liabilities and net losses Economic result for the financial year 1 820 Đ 90 1 730 3 774 1 637 183 1 820 4 327 (1) The negative amount for 2005 is a result of corrections. Net of total liabilities and net assets Total (a) Net of the total of operating assets 2006 2005 2006 2006 (a) Net of 2006 2006 (a) Total of 1 000 EUR) (1 000 EUR) Table 2 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) 44 Results of the budget for 2006 The Agency's data are shown in the budget of the financial year 2006 in the table.
The revenue collected and the payments are protected according to the method of cash-based accounting.
Table 3 Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao)  for the financial years 2006 and 2005 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) (Bilbao) for the financial year 2006 and for the financial year 2005 for the financial year 2006 and for the financial year 2005 for the financial year 2006 and for the financial year 2005 for the financial year 2006 and for the financial year 2005 for the financial year 2006 and for the financial year 2005 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2006 for the financial year 2005 for the financial year at the financial year 2006 for the financial year for the financial year 2006 for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year 2006 for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year 2006 for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year 2005 for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the year for the financial for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial year for the financial for the financial year for the financial year for the financial for the financial for the financial year for the financial for the financial year for the financial year for the year for the financial year for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial year for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial year for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial year for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial for the financial year for the financial for the financial for the financial year for the financial for the financial for
C 309/66 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 1. The Agency accepts the comment.
Since July 2007, the Board of Directors has been notified of all decisions taken by the Director concerning the transfers of funds via the Agency's Extranet.
C 311/50 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the 2007 annual accounts of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/08) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
RELIABILITY COLLECTION.............................................................................
Tables1-4..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
52 Responses from the Agency................................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/51 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 (1).
As regards the Agency's tasks, the collection and dissemination of information on national and Community priorities in the field of safety and health at work, the support of the national and Community institutions concerned in formulating and implementing appropriate measures, and the information on preventive measures.
DECLARATION OF DECLARATION 3. This declaration of reliability shall be submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council pursuant to Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2). It shall be based on the examination of the Agency's account to be carried out by the Court pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (3) were drawn up in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 by the Director of the Agency and forwarded to the Court with a statement of the annual accounts and the legality and legality of the underlying accounts.
5. The Court carried out its examination in compliance with the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI) and the International Professional Grounds for the Final Professionals of the IFAC(4), insofar as they are applicable in the Community context.
6. The Court shall have an adequate basis for the following The Court of Auditors' annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 shall be the subject of the accounts of the Agency in all material respects.
Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President (1)
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 24 June 2008 and were received by the Court on 26 June 2008.
(4) ISSAI is a member of the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC is a member of the International Federation of Accountants.
C 311/52 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Community competence areas under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) Management structure 1. Management board The Agency for the 2006 amended Regulation Products and services in 2007 Social legislation Objectives Tasks of the Final Budget: Creation of interconnections and interconnections: The Community and the Member States (...) pursue the improvement of living and working conditions in order to achieve convergence through progress (...).
In order to ensure that, in accordance with the Treaty and the subsequent Community strategies and action programmes for the collection, analysis and dissemination of information on the national and Community priorities, and on research; composition of EUR 14.9 million (EUR 14.1 million); completion and follow-up of the second external evaluation of the Agency's performance; In order to achieve the objectives of Article 136, the Community supports and complements the action of the Member States in the following areas: (a) improvement in the working environment in particular for the protection of the health and safety of workers;
representatives of the parties of the (extracts from Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) to the field of health and safety at work.
The Agency pursues the objective of providing Community institutions, the Member States, the social partners and the relevant stakeholders with all relevant technical, scientific and economic information, the three representatives of the Commission.
Total staff: 63 (59), of which operational activities: 47 (42) administrative activities: 9 (9) other activities: 7 (8) which are monitored and evaluated: 2005 evaluation report of the 2005 campaign ăEnd with L of the L of the L of the L of the L of the L and L campaign; online survey of the website users; implementation of website benchmarking.
許皆 Chairman and 3 Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors; composition of  and information material for national campaigns and campaigns in the framework of the European Week 2007 (muscle and skeletal diseases) and 2008 (risk assessment); Table 1 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) 你 a government representative from each Member State; of which:  for each Member State: for the Community subsidy, for DG, a coordinator from each of the three stakeholders; for information material on projects on safety and health at work and on economic performance; for the HORECA sector, for the integration of safety and health at work in education and cleaning) 你 another representative from each group and from the Commission.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/53 Source: Information of the Agency. Community competence under the Treaty Provisions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) Management structure of the Agency for 2007 (data for 2006) Products and services in 2007 Task  ) General improvement of the quality and the competence of the information   as well as of the on-line thesaurus.  and monitoring the preparation and implementation of the decisions of the Management Board.
(4) Deadline for implementation of the legislation in the Member States for the implementation of the legislation in the Member States
The Court of Auditors shall be audited outside the Court of Auditors.
6. European Parliament on a recommendation from the Council.
C 311/54 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community allocation Other revenue 14 000 430 13 000 443 Title I Staff 4 797 1 623 8 010 4 292 1 443 7 880 3 996 1 087 4 972 160 641 184 130 125 79 47 Assigned revenue 498 430 Assigned revenue 498 391 147 282 68 194 194 0 Total 14 928 13 873 Total 14 928 14 006 10 202 3 702 1 023 2 663 2 312 351 Revenue Expenditure Expenditure Appropriations of the final budget Revenue entered in the final budget of the financial year Title II Administration 352 381 369 11 Title III Operational expenditure 2 908 1 963 1 670 293 Table 2 European Agency for Safety and Health Protection at Work (Bilbao)   and the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2007 Source: Agency data.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao)  of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) of the European Union
Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) Table 4 - Review as at 31 December 2007 and as at 31 December 2006 2007 (EUR 1 000) 2006 71 247 4 435 27 2 990 3 774 63 1 981 2 044 1 730 1 820 Đ 90 1 730 Investment Intangible fixed assets 44 tangible fixed assets 261 Long-term assets Current short-term pre-financing Short-term fixed assets Cash and cash equivalent short-term liabilities Receipts for risks and liabilities Receipts liabilities Reserves Cumulative pre-financing/losses Economic result of the year as a whole Total liabilities Net liabilities Net liabilities 4 330 38 4 268 4 945 70 2 654 2 724 2 221 1 730 491 2 221 Source: Agency data.
C 311/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 1. The Agency takes note of the Court's report.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union IV (Information) INFORMATION OF THE INSTITUTIONS, INSTITUTIONS AND OTHER BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION COURT OF AUDITORS Annual report on the EU agencies for the financial year 2017 (2018/C 434/01) CONTENTS C 434/1 EN List of the agencies................................................................................................................................ Page 2 4 15 29 CHAPTER 1 CHAPTER 2 CHAPTER 3 EU agencies and the Court of Auditors.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EN C 434/2 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 LIST OF CROPS The list of CROPS includes the agencies and other bodies of the Union that are the subject of this report.
The fullYouthdd DiYoud Foundation for the equality questions Europ__ischeische Chemical Chemical Agency Europ equality Chemical Agency Europ for the control of diseases Europpdische Chemicals Agency Europ for the control of diseases Europ_ische Chemical Agency Europ_ische Chemicals Agency Europ_ische Chemicals Agency Europ_ Chemicals Agency Europ_ische Fisheries Supers control Agency Europ_ische Fisheries Overs Overs Control Agency Europ_ Control of diseases Europ_ Fisheries Overs Control Agency Europs Fisheries Overs Control Agency Europ_ of the Fisheries Oversight Agency Europ_ische Behth of the control of food safety for food safety for the food safety for the EUp___________________________ for for food safety for the European equality questions Europ_ equality issues Europ____________p____________________ Be for______________________________________________You_
EN 30.11.2018 Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Denmark Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Belgium Denmark Belgium Belgium Belgium Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Belgium Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Belgium Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Belgium Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Belgium Denmark Belgium Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Belgium Denmark Denmark Belgium Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Belgium Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Ireland Ireland Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Denmark Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Luxembourg Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Luxembourg Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Denmark Luxembourg Ireland Ireland Luxembourg Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Luxembourg Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Luxembourg Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Luxembourg Ireland Luxembourg Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Ireland Denmark Ireland
EN C 434/4 Official Journal of the European Union CHAPTER 1 European Union agencies and the Court's presentation CONTENTS INTRODUCTION..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Decentralised agencies deal with specific policy needs The Commission's executive agencies carry out EU programmes...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
THEREOF................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
30.11.2018 Point 1.1-1.3 5 1.4-1.21 5 1.4-1.14 5 1.8-1.9 7 1.10 8 1.11-1.14 8 1.15-1.20 8 1.21 13 1.22-1.32 13 1.22-1.24 13 1.25-1.32 13
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/5 INTRODUCTION 1.1.
The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (1) is the European Court of Auditors of the European Union.
In this capacity, the Court plays the role of independent of the financial interests of the citizens of the Union, in particular by contributing to the improvement of EU financial management.
More detailed information on the Court's work can be found in its annual work reports and annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget, as well as in its special reports, landscape analyses and comments on new or modified EU legislation, or other decisions affecting financial management (2).
In accordance with its mandate, the Court shall, every year, draw up the annual accounts and the underlying accounts of all the institutions, agencies and other bodies of the Union (3).
This report contains the results of the Court's review of the financial year 2017 of the EU agencies and other bodies of the Union (together the agencies).
The report is structured as follows: : Chapter 1 gives an overview of the agencies and the nature of the Court's scrutiny. : Chapter 2 presents the overall results of the review. : Chapter 3 gives a description of the nature of each of the 41 agencies, together with the Court's rulings and the Court's comments on the reliability of the agencies' accounts, as well as the legality and legality of the underlying income and payments.
EU AGENCIES Different types of agencies contribute to shaping and implementing EU policies 1.4.
Agencies are separate bodies of their own legal personality, which have been founded by a secondary act in order to perform specific technical and scientific tasks or administrative tasks, thereby helping to shape and implement the policies of the EU institutions.
Many agencies are clearly visible and have a significant impact on key areas that are important for the everyday lives of European citizens, such as health, security, freedom and justice.
With their capacity declarations in Chapter 3, a brief description of the tasks carried out by each agency is in addition.
In this report, the agencies are using their respective languages, which can be taken from the list at the beginning of this report.
There are three types of agencies: decentralised agencies, executive agencies and other bodies.
Its main features are explained below.
The number of agencies has increased over the years and was 41 in 2017, as shown in Figure 1.1.
(1) Articles 285 to 287 (OJ C 326, 26.10.2012, p. 169-171).
(2) Available from the Court's website: www.eca.europa.eu (3) Three defence agencies (the European Defence Agency, the European Union's Institute for Security Studies and the European Union's Satellite Centre) financed from the contributions of the Member States are not financed by the Court, but by other independent external agencies.
EN C 434/6 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.1 Increase in the number of agencies Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Commission's executive agencies are based in Brussels or Luxembourg as are the Commission itself.
Decentralised agencies and other bodies have their headquarters throughout the EU and are spread across 23 different Member States, as shown by the list of different agencies and illustration 1.2.
The seat of the agencies shall be decided by the Council or jointly by the Council and the European Parliament.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/7 Illustration 1.2 Seat of the agencies in the Member States Source: European Court of Auditors.
Decentralised agencies deal with specific policy needs 1.8.
The 32 decentralised agencies (4) play an important role in the preparation and implementation of EU policies, in particular in terms of technical, scientific, operational and/or regulatory tasks.
The main aim here is to meet specific political needs and to strengthen European cooperation through the development of expertise and expertise of the EU and national governments.
The decentralised agencies have been set up for an indefinite period by regulation of the Council or of the European Parliament and of the Council.
Decentralised agencies shall operate under the control of a Management Board composed of representatives of the Member States, the Commission and some agencies, including other parties.
The Management Board shall determine the operational frameworks to be followed by the agencies, such as the multiannual and annual work programme, the budget budget, and the posts executed under the responsibility of the respective Executive Directors/Directors.
Each decentralised agency is subject to its own discharge procedure in respect of the implementation of its budget which covers staff, administrative and operational expenditure. In most cases, the discharge is granted by the European Parliament and the Council (5).
(4) Cedefop, Eurofound, EEA, ETF, EMA, EMCDDA, CdT, CPVO, EUIPO, EU-OSHA, FRA, EASA, EFSA, EMSA, Eurojust, ECDC, ENISA, ERA, Frontex, GSA, EPA, EFCA, ECHA, EIGE, ACER, BMA des BEREK, Europol, EASO, EBA, EIOPA, ESMA and eu-LISA.
(5) Two self-financed agencies (CPVO and EUIPO) are subject to the discharge procedure of their Board of Directors.
EN C 434/8 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The Commission's executive agencies run the EU's programmes by 1.10.
The Commission's six executive agencies(6) are entrusted with implementing and operational tasks related to one or more Union programmes and their duration is limited in time.
They have been established by decision of the Commission and operate under the supervision of a steering committee appointed by the Commission.
Their work is based on multiannual and annual work programmes, which are established and implemented under the responsibility of an Executive Director.
They are subject to individual discharge procedures by the European Parliament and the Council for their own budgets.
Unlike decentralised agencies, their budgets cover only human resources and administrative expenditure, while all their operational expenditure comes from the Commission's budget and is therefore part of the overall relief provided to the Commission.
The executive agencies' own budget therefore corresponds only to a very small part of the budget that they actually carry out.
The other institutions have special tasks 1.11.
The three other bodies are the EIT, the Euratom Supply Agency and the SRB.
The EIT in Budapest is an independent, decentralised institution of the EU, which develops resources in the fields of science, economy and education, in order to strengthen the Union's innovative capacity by providing financial support.
The Institute was set up indefinitely by the European Parliament and the Council.
It is managed by a Director and supervised by a Board of Directors and is subject to a discharge procedure of its own by the European Parliament and the Council.
The Euratom Supply Agency in Luxembourg was extended by the Council for an indefinite period to support the objectives of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community.
It is subject to a separate discharge procedure by the European Parliament and the Council.
An Advisory Council composed of members from the Member States shall assist the Euratom Supply Agency in carrying out its tasks by giving opinions and providing analysis and information.
The Director-General of the Euratom Supply Agency shall operate under the supervision of the Commission.
The SRB is the central settlement authority in the banking union and is headquartered in Br isssel.
The SRB's mission is to ensure that banks at risk of insolvency are dealt with in an orderly manner, with as little impact as possible on the real economy, the financial system and public finances of the participating Member States, and beyond that.
The SRB is reviewed by its chairman, who is also responsible for the appointments.
The chairman of the SRB shall be subject to a separate discharge procedure by the Committee to which the members of the national resolution authorities of the participating Member States are requested.
Agencies are financed from various sources and under various MFF headings 1.15.
The budget of all agencies (excluding the SRB) amounted to 3.5 billion euros in 2017 (2016: 3.4 billion euros), the equivalent of around 2.7% of the total EU budget in 2017 (2016: 2.4%), as can be seen from Figure 1.3.
The agencies with the highest increase in funding in 2017 were the GSA and the EIT, which are financed under the MFR (7) sub-heading 1a (competitiveness for growth and employment), and Frontex, the EMA and the EASO, which are financed under the MFR heading 3 (security and union citizenship).
In addition, the SRB's 2017 budget in the amount of 6.6 billion euros (2016: 11.8 billion euros) (8).
It consists of contributions paid by credit institutions to the Single Resolution Fund.
(6) INEA, REA, EACEA, ERCEA, Chafea and EASME.
(7) Multiannual EU financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
(8) The 2016 revenue budget consisted not only of the contributions of credit institutions to the Single Resolution Fund for 2016 but also of the contributions for 2015, which were collected by the national resolution authorities in 2015, but only passed on to the Fund in January 2016.
Therefore, the overall budget for 2017 is much lower than the budget for 2016 (6.6 billion against 11.8 billion euros).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/9 1.17.
The budgets of decentralised agencies and other bodies cover human, administrative and operational expenditure, whereas the executive agencies carry out programmes financed by the Commission's budget, and cover their own budgets (a total of around EUR 241 million) only human and administrative expenditure.
The Commission's operational expenditure, which was financed by the six executive agencies, amounted to around 6.8 billion euros in 2017, more than double the total budget of all the other agencies, in the absence of the SRB.
Illustration 1.3 Funding sources of the agencies in 2017 Source: EU total budget 2017 and budgets of the agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
Most agencies, including executive agencies, are financed almost entirely from the EU's overall budget.
The other agencies are financed entirely or partly by fees and fees and by direct contributions from participating countries such as Member States, EFTA countries and so on. The total EU budget totaled around 2.5 billion euros, plus 1 billion euros from fees and fees as well as direct contributions from participating countries.
Figure 1.4 shows a breakdown of the agencies by size of the contributions received from the EU budget.
EN C 434/10 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.4 Agencies by size of contributions from the EU budget Source: Agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/11 1.19.
The EUR 2.5 billion in contributions from the EU's total budget is financed under various MFF headings, as shown in Figure 1.5.
Illustration 1.5 Financing of the agencies according to the MFF headings of the EU general budget Source: Multiannual EU financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and 2017 budgets of the agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
In terms of staff, at the end of 2017, the agencies had around 11,000 staff (9) (2016: 10 300), representing about one sixth of the staff employed by the EU institutions and agencies as a whole.
Figure 1.6 shows the breakdown of the total number of staff of each agency.
(9) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
EN C 434/12 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.6 Personnel of the European Court of Auditors closed down by agencies at the end of 2017 Source: agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/13 The network of EU agencies promotes the agency's extensive cooperation and communication with stakeholders 1.21.
The EU Agency Network (EUAN) was established by the agencies as an agency-crossing cooperation forum to increase the visibility of the agencies, to identify and increase efficiency gains and to create added value.
The EUAN is working on the basis of the priorities set by the agencies in a 5-year strategy agenda (2015-2020) and the annual work programmes in which the activities and the results to be achieved are defined.
An important role for the EUAN is to ensure efficient communication between the agencies and the stakeholders and the EU institutions as a whole.
The Court's mandate is to prepare the annual accounts and the annual accounts of the agencies 1.22.
Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) the Court (a) has examined the annual accounts of all agencies consisting of the annual accounts(10) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (11) for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the financial statements.
On the basis of the results of its audit, the Court shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council or to the other discharge authorities referred to in Chapter 3 of this Report, for each Agency, a statement of the invoicing and the legality and regularity of the underlying statement.
Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (12) the annual accounts of 32 agencies receiving contributions from the EU budget were revised by independent external experts.
The Court reviewed the validity of the results of the audit of the International Standards on Auditing and reviewed them when drafting its own audit judgments.
The Court's assessment of the risks identified is a 1.25.
In order to ensure sufficient security, the Court has designed its audit in such a way as to shed light on the main identified risks. In general, a low risk exists as regards the appreciability of the agencies' invoicing 1.26.
Overall, the Court considers that the risk with regard to the risk of the risk of the need to manage the accounts for all agencies to be low.The accounts of the agencies are drawn up using the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector.
The number of significant errors detected in the past was small.
Title I (Staff expenditure) 1.28.
The Commission's management of the beneficiaries of the PMO (Office for the Determination and Implementation of Individual Claims) is examined by the Court in the context of its specific assessments of administrative expenditure.
No significant errors have been identified in relation to staff expenditure in recent years.
However, if the agencies need to hire large numbers of staff in the short term, there is a medium to high risk of the rightfulness and regularity of recruitment procedures.
(10) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net income, and a summary of the financial statements and other financial statements.
(11) The budget implementation reports include the projections summarising all revenue and expenditure projections, as well as explanations.
(12) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council
EN C 434/14 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Title II (Administrative expenditure) 1.29.
The procurement of various services (with increasing IT concerns) includes complex procurement rules and procedures, and the agencies' administrations sometimes do not achieve satisfactory transparency and not the best price-performance ratio.
Serious award errors, which affect the conditions for payment, were usually one of the main reasons for one of the Court's Court's restrictive judgments and remarks.
Title III (operational expenditure) 1.30.
There is a low to high risk.
This depends on the agency concerned and on the nature of its operational expenditure.
In general, the risks associated with procurement are comparable with those associated with Title II, although the risks may be more the same.
As regards the financial assistance provided under Title III of the budget, earlier checks have shown that, despite the overall improvements, the agencies have not always been fully effective.
There is a medium risk in terms of budget efficiency, which has been identified mainly in the areas of IT and public procurement procedures.
The Court has already reported on its findings on different IT landscapes in the agencies, weaknesses in IT project management and on the procurement procedures, which did not guarantee the best price-performance ratio.
In general, there is a risk of administrative efficiency of the large number of small agencies (see the Illustrations 1.4 and 1.6, which are endowed with their own administrative structures and procedures).
THE RESULTS OF THE AGENCY'S AGENCY'S AGENCIES' AGENCY'S AGENCY'S AGENCIES' ANNUAL PRINTS OF 2017 ARE OVERALL OVERALL.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Unrestricted opinions on the reliability of the accounts for all agencies................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The summary of the main facts of the case is fundamentally based on the understanding of the annual accounts...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
The Court's observations cover a wide range of topics...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Special ReportoftheCourtofofoftheCourtofoftheCourtofoftheCourtofCourtofofoftheCourtofofCourtofCourtofofSRB...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EN C 434/16 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 INTRODUCTION 2.1.
This chapter contains an overview of the results of the annual reviews of the agencies carried out by the Court for the year 2017 and the further examination of the agencies carried out by the Court in the course of 2017.
THE RESULTS OF THE AGENCY'S AGENCY'S AGENCY'S AGENCY'S AGENCY'S AGENCY'S ANNUAL PRINTS OF 2017 TOTAL POSITIV 2.3.
Overall, the Court's audit of the agencies' annual accounts of 31 December 2017 confirms the positive results of the previous years and the revenue and payments forming the basis of these annual accounts.
The Court has given its opinion on the annual accounts of all the agencies.
According to the Agency's assessment, the annual accounts of the agencies represent their financial position as at 31 December 2017 as well as the results of their accounts and cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with their respective financial rules and with the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer (13) in all essential respects.
Abstentions to highlight a case are fundamental to the understanding of annual accounts 2.5.
With regard to EASO, the Court pointed out that the personnel situation of the B thero deteriorated exponentially.
The B愤ro does not currently have the administrative capacity to fill the many vacancies.
Overall, the continued nature of the work of the work of the B, is the result of the personnel situation to the present extent.
In the case of the SRB, the Court pointed out that the contributions to the Single Resolution Fund are calculated on the basis of the information provided by credit institutions to the Committee by the national resolution authorities.
However, the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure the reliability of this information.
The Court also noted that the methodology laid down in the legislation for the calculation of contributions is very complex, which involves risks for accuracy.
The Committee may not disclose the data of the credit institutions used for the calculation of the contributions of the funds for confidentiality purposes, which reduces transparency.
As regards ECHA, the Court stressed that the Agency is partly self-financed and that it receives a receipt from any company applying for the registration of chemicals as provided for in the REACH Regulation(14).
The calculation and billing of fees shall be carried out by the Agency on the basis of the information provided by the undertakings at the time of the application.
The ex-post surveys carried out by the Agency have shown that the total amount of the ex-post corrections is required, the total amount of which was not known at the end of 2017.
This finding shows the limitations of a system which is based in too high a level on the self-evident of the applicants.
With regard to GSA, the Court pointed out that the outcome of the public procurement procedure for one of the Agency's most important entities (the EUR 1.5 billion framework agreement) was contested by one of the tenderers.
With regard to the two agencies in London (EMA and EBA), the Court pointed out that they will leave the United Kingdom in 2019 and that their annual accounts, along with their accounts, were prepared on the basis of the information available at the time they were signed.
The Court also pointed out the impact of the current London lease agreements and the potentially falling revenue resulting from the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the EU.
These are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector. Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) (OJ L 347, 20.12.2006, p.
Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 of 5 December 2006 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 396/2006 (OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 396/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1), as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 (OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1), as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 528/2006 (OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 596/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/17 Unrestricted judgments of the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts of all agencies 2.12.
For all agencies, the Court has given the Court allegations of the legality and legality of the revenue underlying the accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017.
According to the Court's judgement, the revenues in all essential matters were legal and orderly.
Unrestricted judgments on the legality and regularity of payments on the basis of the annual accounts of the agencies (with the exception of EASO) 2.13.
For 40 agencies, the Court has issued unrestricted court rulings on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017.
According to the Court's assessment, the payments were legal and regular in all essential respects.
As the understandings are systematic, the internal control system is obviously illegible.
The cumulative error due to irregular payments relates to at least EUR 7.7 million or 10.3% of the total payments made by the B Thero in 2017.
The reference to other issues raises issues of particular importance 2.15.
The references to other matters should point out to the reader important points, which are not represented or stated in the annual accounts or which concern the legality and regularity of the income and payments.
As regards the EIT, the Court found that the original refund rates for Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) were raised towards the end of the period.
Moreover, two KICs have included some new activities in the annual activities.
For one of the KICs, this resulted in a significant change in the original grant decision.
Substantial changes can affect the equal treatment of the KICs and are not in line with the Financial Regulation.
In the case of Frontex, the Court has repeatedly reported since 2014 that the cooperating states often provide insufficient evidence of the expenditure they claim.
This was also confirmed by the this year's test results.
In response to the recommendation made by the Court in 2016, Frontex is currently implementing a simplified reimbursement model.
With regard to EBA, EIOPA and ESMA, the Court pointed out that their budgets are partly financed from the European Union and partly from direct contributions from the supervisory authorities and/or the supervised bodies of the EU Member States.
As a result of the decision of the United Kingdom to leave the EU, the revenue of the agglomerations could be reduced in the future.
With regard to the GSA, the Court reported that the Agency operates both the Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) and Galileo ground stations in the United Kingdom, which may need to be relocated.
As regards the CdT, the Court pointed out that several agencies increasingly resort to in-house or other alternative translation, which meant that the maximum utilization of the Centre's capacity was not.
In addition, at European level, there is double the cost of developing translation systems and running costs.
The Bureau of the Board of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (B⚭ro des BEREK) mandated the CdT in December 2016 to translate four calls for expressions of interest with a view to drawing up reserve lists, even though all posts approved by the budgetary authority in the Bureau's establishment plan were filled.
The Court considered that the translation order issued in December 2016 was not justified.
The payment made on this order in March 2017 amounted to 2.5% of the 2017 budget.
EN C 434/18 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.1 Annual Court of Auditors rulings 2014-2017 on the annual accounts and the annual accounts of the agencies Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Court's observations cover a wide range of issues 2.22.
The Court made a total of 145 comments concerning 37 agencies in order to underline important issues and to identify areas where there is a need for improvement.
These comments, set out in Chapter 3, are summarised below.
Large risks result in significant vulnerabilities in EASO 2.23.
In the case of the EASO, the Court pointed out the major risks arising from the nature of its activities and the extraordinary challenges arising from the migration crisis.
These risks were not mitigated by a sound governance structure and effective controls, leading to a number of substantial infringements of the legislation.
Since 2014, the B茴ro has been struggling with a high staff turnover. Recruitment procedures were suspended in December 2017.
In addition, neither an internal audit department nor a legal service is set up, and legal documents are not systematically audited.
Almost all of the services offered, based on public procurement or recruitment procedures, were systematically accused of being accused of being the subject of substantial recruitments in connection with the identification of the needs of the farm, the elaboration of performance descriptions, the choice of the type of order, the evaluation and procurement procedures, the changes and extensions of the services, the execution of the services and the procurement of the services provided, etc.
These rules are contrary to the principles of competition, transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/19 Progress towards a more unified IT landscape 2.26.
The operative activities of the agencies are broad and require appropriate IT solutions, sometimes tailor-made.
However, central operational and administrative activities are carried out on the basis of the same legal framework, suggesting that their procedures are carried out, and that similar IT solutions can be used to support these procedures.
While the agencies made very significant progress with regard to the use of similar systems of budget and accounting management, the Court reported here, in its 2016 summary report on the results of the audits with the agencies, on the use of a large number of IT solutions, in other core areas such as human resources management and procurement and management.
Agencies have agreed to further standardise IT solutions in these areas, in particular in order to increase cost efficiency, to reduce the risks associated with internal control and to strengthen IT governance.
In 2017, some progress was made on IT tools for human resources management when 20 agencies concluded agreements with the Commission on the use of the SYSPER II tool, which will create a more uniform IT landscape in this area.
The majority of the agencies will use the Commission's tool as of 1 January 2019, while some agencies will use it as of the third quarter of 2018.
In this fragmented IT landscape, the use of similar electronic tools for the procurement of supplies and services (electronic procurement) would also be an important step towards a more unified IT framework among the agencies.
Under the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation, which entered into force in 2012 and 2013 respectively, all EU institutions and agencies shall, insofar as possible, draft and implement solutions for the submission, storage and processing of data submitted in grant and award procedures, for which they shall establish a common area for electronic data exchange for applicants, candidates and tenderers (15), (16).
While no target date has been set in the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation for the introduction of electronic procurement, the 2014 EU Directive on public procurement(17) requires the use of electronic means for public procurement in EU Member States by 2018, and in accordance with the 2014 EU Directive on electronic invoicing(18), all public entities must allow the receipt of electronic invoices by 2019.
(15) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic administration (ăe-Government)
(16) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013 of 30 September 2013 on the framework Financial Regulation for the bodies referred to in Article 208 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Article 79 of the Electronic Administration (ăe-Governmente) (OJ L 302, 1.11.2013, p.
(17) Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC (OJ L 262, 20.9.2014, p.
(18) Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing for public invoicing (OJ 2014 L 18, p.
EN C 434/20 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2.29.
All agencies publish their tenders electronically via TED (Tenders Electronic Daily), the online version of the EU Official Journal for public procurement. In addition, the Commission launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). Most agencies had the electronic invoicing and the electronic invoicing for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not the electronic submission of tenders.
Improvement in IT consulting services and project management at EMA and eu-LISA IT consulting services and project management at EMA 2.30.
In the course of the previous year's review, the Court analysed how the Agency manages advisory services.
The use of consulting firms in the field of consulting has led to a critical dependence of external expertise.
The Court also reported that the control of the project development and implementation was insufficient and that the projects were subject to serious delays and cost increases.
In 2017, the Agency took several measures to improve the situation.
However, it will take time to reduce the critical nature of the agency of consulting firms, and the effects of the actions taken will only be apparent over the years.
IT consulting services and project management at eu-LISA 2.32.
The agency uses advice mainly in connection with IT projects due to the nature of its activity.
In 2017, the Agency's IT projects were implemented within the financial and time frame.
The Agency uses a outsourcing model for the development and implementation of IT projects, whereby approximately 90% of the corresponding work is carried out by three contractors.
Although the IT projects are the property of the agency and are under its control, a model, in which the development of so sensitive IT systems are outsourced to this extent, entails the risk of a superior independence from the contractors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/21 2.34.
At the same time, the low number of staff in the operational key sections creates a risk for the continuity of the establishment.
Public procurement is intended to ensure competition between economic operators and to make the most economic purchase possible, and is to operate in a transparent, objective, and coherent manner on the basis of the current legal framework.
The Court found in 14 agencies in the field of public procurement (BEREK, EPA, Chafea, eu-LISA, EASO, EBA, EEA, EFSA, EIGE, EUIPO, ERA, EASA, FRA and SRB) the EUIPO and the EUIPO, mostly in the field of services, which involve risks for optimal use of funds.
Among the most frequently identified reasons are the lack of a balanced relationship between price and quality aspects of the award criteria, the lack of optimal design of framework agreements, the use of framework agreements allowing the procurement of services, the description and/or price of which were not identified sufficiently, and the use of intermediate services.
Most agencies analysed the impact of Brexit 2.36. On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, five agencies (ACER, B, B, B, EPA, ENISA, and EU-OSHA) did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on their organisation, their operations, and their accounting operations.
Job postings could be published on the EPSO website 2.37.
Most agencies (ACER, Cedefop, EPA, Chafea, EASA, EBA, ECHA, EEA, EIGE, EIOPA, EIT, EMA, EMCDDA, EMSA, ENISA, ESMA, eu-LISA, Eurojust, Europol, Frontex, GSA and SRB) publish job vacancies on their own websites and on social media, but frequently not on the websites of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
An announcement on the EPSO website would increase transparency and publicity and would enable the citizens of Europe to see job vacancies of all European institutions and institutions.
The main reason the agencies are responsible for is that the EPSO requires the publication of job advertisements in all the official languages of the EU, which is associated with high translation costs.
Less comments on the legality and regularity of payments 2.38.
The number of comments on the legality and regularity of payments has been down to eight (2016: 11), which illustrates the ongoing efforts of the agencies to comply with the legal framework, in particular the provisions of the Financial Regulation and the framework Financial Regulation and the Staff Regulations.
While five comments were made again in relation to procurement procedures (EASO, EASA, EIGE and Frontex), three were related to recruitment procedures (EASO, Cedefop and Frontex).
The budget management has improved 2.39.
Budget appropriations granted for a given year can be transferred to the next year under certain conditions (19).
Although the Financial Regulation does not set the limits for the transfer of funds of this kind, the multi-annual nature of the activities does not justify the transfer. Nevertheless, the transfer of funds of this kind can be an indication of delays in the implementation of the work programmes or procurement plans, and can be contrary to the budgetary principle.
Illustration 2.4 shows how many agencies the Court reported in 2017 and in previous years about high funds transfers.
The return to only two agencies (Chafea and EU-OSHA) in 2017 is due to the fact that the transfers by the agencies were better and more transparently explained and founded, but also to the Court's changed approach for reporting 2017.
(19) The conditions for transfers are laid down in Article 13 of the Financial Regulation.
EN C 434/22 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.4 Less comments on the excessive or excessive transfer of funds Source: European Court of Auditors on the basis of information provided by the agencies.
In addition, the Court found that two agencies (Frontex and EUIPO) had cancelled the budget carried over from previous years.
This was an indication that the budget was too high, in particular on the part of the public authorities of Member States and other cooperating States.
Accountancy could be further improved 2.42.
In the course of these audits, the Court also reviewed the accounting of the agencies, which plays an important role in the preparation of reliable annual accounts.
Each agency has its own accountant, under the Financial Regulation. This has led to a total of 37 accounts being held responsible for 2% of the EU budget.
The main tasks of the accountant are the performance of the payments, the acceptance of the income and the collection of the receivables, the preparation and presentation of the annual accounts and the account management, the definition and validation of the accounting systems and the cash management.
In order to increase efficiency, the Commission's accountant asked all agencies in 2012 to delegate their accounting function to him on a contractual basis.
The first agency to accept this proposal was the EPO in 2014.
By the end of 2017, only three other agencies (GSA, B the BEREC and ACER) had joined this scheme.
The hierarchical position of an accountant within an agency may affect his independence.
In particular, accountants must be independent of persons who, (subordinately), are (authorized) to make commitments, to make legal commitments and to notify payments.
This observation concerns a total of 13 agencies (CdT, EACEA, EASA, EASME, EEA, EFSA, EIOPA, EMA, EMCDDA, ERA, EU-OSHA, Eurofound and FRA).
The appointment and annual assessment of the accounting officer should then also fall within the scope of responsibility of the Board of Directors.
According to the Financial Regulation, the auditors must confirm that the agencies' accounting systems function reliably (validation).
While the validation of the accounting systems of most agencies is up to date, the Court noted that the accounting systems of seven agencies (ACER, B, B, B, EPA, EASME, EIT, EMA and GSA) needed to be revalidated as a result of major changes.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/23 Illustration 2.5 The independence of the agencies' auditors and the revalidation of the accounting systems Source: European Court of Auditors based on information provided by the agencies.
In three agencies (EASO, CPVO and REA) award, grant and recruitment procedures were inadequately documented.
Three agencies (ACER, EIT and Frontex) identified M) angels for internal control for the implementation of the emergency control standard.
These angels could pose a considerable risk for maintaining business in the event of a disaster, as data could be irrevocably lost.
Agencies continue to monitor preliminary findings from previous years 2.47.
If applicable, the Court reported on the state of play of the follow-up measures taken by the agencies on the basis of comments from previous years.
Figure 2.6 shows that the corrective measures related to the 170 observations not yet implemented at the end of 2016 were complete or in progress in most cases.
Of the 13 outstanding comments, the corrective measures required in relation to three comments were not subject to the Agency's control.
EN C 434/24 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.6 European Court of Auditors.
The Court directs fraud to OLAF 2.48.
OLAF will then be responsible for investigating and prosecuting these cases, if appropriate in cooperation with national judicial authorities.
In 2017 the Court identified three cases of suspected fraud that it reported to OLAF in the context of its examination of around 1000 proposals and 150 procurement procedures in the context of its cases of cases of the Agency's fraud.
The Court provides information on Commission Internal Audit Service (IAS) reports and external evaluation reports 2.49.
The Court also referred, for information purposes, to IAS audit reports and external evaluation reports prepared on behalf of the Commission.
In 2017, 26 IAS reports were prepared and an external evaluation of an agency was carried out in nine cases.
The Court has not Court the appropriate procedures or evaluation processes  not  or...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
PROFESSIONAL RESULTS FROM OTHER REPORTS PROFESSIONAL TO THE AGENCIES RESULTS OF THE AGENCIES RESULTS OF HOF 2017 TO THE PROFESSIONAL ANALYSIS OF THE Court'S Rapid Case Review of 5 % 2.50.
In 2017, the Court carried out a rapid analysis (20) of how the institutions and agencies of the European Union implemented their commitment to reduce the staff of their posts by 5% in the period 2013-2017 (for agencies 2014-2018).
The Court concluded that the agencies had implemented the reduction of staff by 5%, although with some reduction.
While decentralised agencies with traditional tasks managed to reduce their staff by 8.9%, the number of staff of certain decentralised agencies and executive agencies with new tasks and responsibilities increased by 19.9% and 42.9%, respectively.
Figure 2.7 shows the resulting percentage changes in posts in the posts of all institutions, institutions and agencies.
(20) Rapid Case Review on the implementation of the job reduction of 5%; published on 21 December 2017.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/25 Illustration 2.7 Analysis of changes in the number of posts in the posts between 2012 and 2017 (in %) Source: European Court of Auditors.
Special Report of the Court on the SRB 2.51.
The Single Resolution Committee (SRB), based in Brussels, was set up in August 2014, as part of the political response to the financial crisis.
The task of the Committee is the resolution of insolvency-threatening banks which fall within its scope of responsibility.
In January 2017, the SRB was responsible for 139 banks, including 130 banking groups (21).
In the course of the survey (22) it was examined whether the committee was prepared to handle banks effectively. Particular attention was paid to the quality of the resolution planning for individual banks and the question of whether the committee was prepared to meet the legal requirements in the area of resolution planning and whether it had sufficient human resources to carry out its tasks.
The Court identified deficits in all these areas, but, as the establishment of the Committee as a completely new structure represented a huge challenge, the weaknesses in this context need to be seen.
The Court made a number of recommendations to the Committee with a view to the preparation of resolution plans and the implementation of its rules and guidelines, and to increasing the number of staff and improving the procedures for human resources management.
(21) On 1 January 2018, the number of banks and 119 banking groups decreased.
(22) Special Report No 23/2017: ăSingle Resolution Committee: First steps on the challenging path to the Banking Union have been taken, but there is still a long way to go, published on 19 December 2017.
DE C 434/26 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Special Court annual report on contingent liabilities resulting from the tasks of the Single Resolution Committee 2.54.
Under the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation (23) the Court must draw up a report on all contingent liabilities resulting from the Committee, the Council and the Commission performing their duties under the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation.
As at 31 December 2016, the Committee's contingent liabilities resulting from the pre-selected contributions amounted to EUR 842 million, which rose to EUR 1 420 million as at 30 September 2017.
In 2016, the Board did not initiate bank resolution, and therefore, for the 2016 financial year, no contingent liability related to resolution decisions had to be reported.
At the time the Court's 2016 report was published on contingent liabilities resulting from the Board's exercise of its functions, 90 legal proceedings against the Board had been brought before the Court of the European Union by the end of October 2017 on the basis of the resolution decision taken in June 2017 in relation to the Banco Popular Espa theol S.A., and 46 complaints had been filed with the SRB's Appeals Committee.
The Commission and the Council were informed of the 26 procedures submitted to the Court of First Instance in connection with the abovementioned resolution decision.
Other Court special reports relating to one or more agencies 2.55.
Apart from audit reports specifically dedicated to agencies, the Court prepared a series of special reports and analyses on the implementation of EU policies during 2017 on a number of agencies (see, Figure 2.8).
(23) Article 92(4) of the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/27 Illustration 2.8 Further special reports and analyses of the Court relating to the agencies Source: European Court of Auditors.
EN C 434/28 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE NETWORK OF THE EU AGENCIES The agencies report the Court's positive conclusions on the sufficiency of the Court's annual accounts and on the underlying accounts.
The network would like to express its concerns that the agencies will be forced to continue to use separate tools to assess, telework, flexitime and staff reporting, given the fact that the Commission will only be able to provide them with a basic package of modules in Sysper.
The IT landscape in the area of human resources management will therefore only partly become more uniform and even much less so as the Commission can decide.
The agencies also advocate the possibility of setting up a joint solution for the services concerned to support recruitment procedures that are not currently covered by Sysper.
In the field of procurement, there has been a definite trend towards the harmonisation of electronic tools over the last two years.
This development started in 2015/2016 when the tools for e-PRIOR/electronic procurement designed by DG DIGIT in cooperation with DG BUDG were developed.
Since then, this series of electronic modules has become more and more a standard for all phases of the procurement cycle, to which the agencies adhere.
In 2018, this trend continued as new modules for electronic submission and the ABAC LCK module were introduced and the agencies were introduced.
Gradually, the agencies are putting the use of their own isolated tools, some quick, some less fast, but regardless of how fast this development will take place, the trend in itself is no longer in place.
The proposed efficiency gains that could be achieved by transferring accounting tasks to the European Commission are difficult to achieve in practice.
The required workload does not only depend on the balance of the budget, but also on the fact that the annual accounts have to be completed in a narrow window of time at the beginning of each year.
Experience shows that for more than one package of annual accounts (i.e. for additional financing of delegation agreements) almost twice as much personnel is needed, although the corresponding accounts are smaller (and the financial accounts are smaller).
When these activities were transferred to the Commission, each agency would still need to need an accounting team, as accounting tasks still need to be carried out.
As long as this is the case, any staff savings would not correspond to a full-time equivalent.
In addition, the annual fee has to be paid.
For this reason, only a few agencies have decided to transfer this task to the Commission.
The network would like to point out that to date no investigation or risk assessment has been carried out, which could justify the conclusion that the independence of the auditor would be strengthened if it were to be submitted directly to the authorising officer and not to an authorised authorising officer.
Some agencies have decided to adopt a charter of accountants, including, but not limited to, regulations for reporting to the board of directors, if necessary.
C 434/29 Page 31 33 38 43 46 51 56 61 64 75 79 83 87 87 90 98 103 109 112 112 116 128 132 136 141 149 153 161 165 EN AGENCIES FINANCED UNDER THE MFF PARTICIPATION 1A COMPETITIVENESS FOR GROWTH AND CRIMINATION......................................................................................
European Agency for the Safety of Maritime Transport (EMSA)..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE).....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
European Agency for the Operational Management of IT-Group Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (eu-LISA).........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EN C 434/30 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 page 3.29.
169 3.30.
184 3.31.
188 3.32.
Euratom Supply Agency..........................................................................
191 3.33.
191 3.34.
195,3.35.
Single Supervisory Committee (SRB).........................................................................................
205 EXECUTIVE GENTURES OF THE COMMISSION...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
==References==
209 3.38.
213 3.39.
217 3.40.
221 3.41.
225 3,42.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/31 3.1.
We have carried out our testing in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) as well as the professional behavioural requirements of IFAC and the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI) of INTOSAI.
Our responsibilities according to these standards are described in more detail in the section ăresponsibilities of our report.
We are independent in agreement with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA Code) and with the professional behavioral requirements relevant to our agreement, and we have fulfilled our other professional behavioral obligations in agreement with these requirements and the IESBA Code.
We believe that the evidence that we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to serve as the basis for our judgment.
Responsibilities of the management and of the responsible for the monitoring 3.1.2.
Under Articles 310 to 325 TFEU and the financial regulations of the agencies, the management is responsible for the establishment and presentation of the financial statements on the basis of internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, as well as for the legality and regularity of the statements underlying these financial statements.
This includes the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures as necessary for the establishment and presentation of an annual financial statement, which is free of material, intended or unintended, false representations.
The management of the agencies exercises the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the underlying assets of their annual accounts.
In drawing up the annual accounts, the management of the company is responsible for assessing the ability of the agencies to continue their activities, for the purposes of continuing the activities of the company,, and for applying the accounting principle of continuing the activities of the company, unless the management intends either to liquidate the company or to discontinue business, or has no realistic alternative.
Responsibilities of the investigator for the control of the annual accounts and the underlying accounts 3.1.5.
Our aims are to achieve sufficient certainty whether the annual accounts of the agencies are free of material false accounts and whether the underlying accounts of the agencies are legal and regulatory, and to present to the European Parliament and the Council or other competent discharge authorities on the basis of our examination on the basis of the annual accounts of the agencies and the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts.
False representations and understandings may be intended or unintentional and will be considered essential if they can be expected individually or as a whole to reflect users' economic decisions made on the basis of these annual accounts.
3.1.6.
With regard to revenue, we are reviewing the grants that the agencies have received from the Commission or cooperating States and we are assessing their procedures for collecting fees and other revenue, if relevant.
3.1.7.
As far as expenditure is concerned, we will examine the payment arrangements after the expenditure has been paid, recorded and accepted.
Advance payments are made after the beneficiary has proved their proper use and the agency has accepted their proofs by billing the advance payments in the same year or later.
3.1.8.
As part of a review in agreement with the ISA and ISSAI, we review the whole review of our discretion and maintain a critical attitude.
In addition, we identify and assess the risks of substantial, intended or unintended, misrepresentations in the annual accounts and of significant, intended or unintended,,, or,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, or,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,  ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,,,, ,,, ,,,,,,,,,, , ,,,,, ,,,,,,,, ,,,,,,,,  ,    ,,,, , ,,, ,, ,,, ,,,,,,, ,, 
The risk of material misrepresentations or misrepresentations of non-doing acts not being exposed to legislation is more than a misrepresentation resulting from misrepresentation, since misrepresentation can involve misrepresentation, misrepresentation, intentional imperfections, misrepresentation, or the imposition of internal controls;
C 434/32 ு  relevant internal control system for the planning of the control of the relevant internal control system, relevant for the purposes of the relevant control system, but not for the purpose of giving an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system, for the purposes of the planning of the control systems, the appropriateness of the accounting methods employed by the management, and the representativeness of the estimated accounting values presented by the management, and the associated information; we conclude on the appropriateness of the management's application of the accounting principle of continuation of the management's management and on the basis of the evidence obtained, whether there is a material uncertainty associated with events or circumstances, whether there is significant doubt about the management's ability to carry on the management's management's business.
If we conclude that there is a substantial uncertainty, we are obliged to draw attention, in our note of the final receipt, to the relevant information in the annual accounts, or, if that information is inappropriate, to modify our opinion.
We draw our conclusions on the basis of the proofs of approval obtained up to the date of our approval of the final practitioner.
We are responsible for the guidance, monitoring and execution of the inspection.
DE 3.1.9.
We exchange with the management, among other things, the planned scope and the planned temporal division of the inspection and the important inspection findings, including any important findings in the internal control system, which we recognize during our inspection.
3.1.10.
We determine the facts that we have exchanged with the agencies, those that have been the most important for the examination of the annual accounts of the current period, and are therefore the most important examination processes.
We describe these facts in our note of the final practitioner, unless laws or other laws exclude the public disclosure of the facts or we in our first few cases determine that a facts should not be communicated in our note of the final practitioner, because it is expected that the negative consequences of such a message will surpass their advantages for the public interest.
(24) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012.
AGENCY FOR COOPERATION OF ENERGY GOVERNMENTS (ACER) INTRODUCTION 3.2.1.
The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter ‘the Agency', also ‘Acer') based in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (25).
Under the REMIT Regulation (26), the Agency and national regulatory authorities were entrusted with additional tasks in relation to the monitoring of the European energy wholesale market.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (27).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 13 Total figures on 31 December (1) 91 (1) Staff include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
DECLARATION DECLARING THE DECLARATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL IN 2016 16 103 DECLARATION 3.2.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts consist of the annual accounts(28) and the annual accounts (29) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the annual accounts referred to in Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Commission Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 of 25 June 2004 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 as regards the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 88/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 211, 14.8.2004, p. 1).
(26) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
(27) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on the website www.acer.europa.eu.
(28) The annual accounts include the annual accounts, the annual accounts, the financial results, the cash flow account, the table of changes in net assets, as well as a summary of the financial statements and other changes.
(29) The reports on budget implementation include the revisions, which summarize all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/34 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Compliance of the accounting system Assessment of the compliance of the accounting system 3.2.4.
Payments Payments in respect of the legality and legality of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.2.6.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF ACCOUNTS 3.2.8. In the course of this year's verification of the EU agencies, the Court analysed accounting, including the aspect of timely (re)validation of accounting systems.
In October 2017, the Agency delegated its accounting function to the Commission's accounting officer.
Despite this drastic change, the accounting system was last validated in 2011.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.2.9.
In 2011, the agency was given an additional task in connection with the monitoring of the energy wholesale market (REMIT).
In 2017, for the first time, all the components provided by the REMIT monitoring framework were implemented.
However, the site, originally set up in Maribor, Slovenia, was relocated to the Agency's main data center for disaster data recovery in April 2017 in Ljubljana.
As a result, the backup data is now stored at the same location as the original data.
As a result, a major risk for maintaining business operations for major disasters, as data could be irrevocably lost. COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND THE BENEFIT 3.2.10. On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom (UK) informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw (Brexit) from the European Union.
Unlike most other agencies, the agency did not carry out a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, its operations and its accounting operations.
3.2.11.
The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and in social media, but in general not on the website of the European Agency for Personnel Selection (EPSO), which would increase the transparency and publicity and enable the citizens of Europe to view job advertisements of the various European bodies and agencies.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/35 3.2.12.
In accordance with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform format for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (30) (31). As a framework also applies for the EU institutions, the Commission is developing a comprehensive IT format covering all phases of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents for procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
The agency had not introduced any of these tools by the end of 2017.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.2.13.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a staff management audit report to the Agency(32) in 2017. The Agency drew up an action plan in order to take corrective action in areas potentially in need of improvement.
CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.2.14. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(30) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(31) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (ăe-Government)
(32) The Court has not translated the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS).
C 434/36 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Comments of the Court of Justice of the European Union The seat agreement between the Agency and the Slovenian Government is to be established in Slovenia a European school, but this has still not happened more than four years after the conclusion of the agreement.
In its May 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed the urgent need to clarify roles and powers and to analyse the workload of the contracting authority to increase the efficiency of processes and procedures.
The IAS also concluded that the planning and monitoring of procurement must be significantly improved and the Agency and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
The Agency carried EUR 4.9 million and 86 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2015: EUR 1.4 million and 59% respectively).
As in previous years, these transfers were mainly linked to the implementation of the REMIT regulation on the integrity and transparency of the energy wholesale market and amounted in 2016 to 4.7 million euros (2015: 1.1 million euros).
For Title II (Administrative expenditure), the Agency transferred EUR 1 million or 38% of the committed appropriations to the following financial year (2015: EUR 0.8 million and 35% respectively).
The higher transfer rate is directly linked to the conclusion or signing of procurement procedures and procurement procedures at the end of the year, leading to a transfer of deliveries and/or payments to the following year.
In 2016, 98 out of a total of 299 sales were signed in November and December (5 976 122.47 euros and 40 % of the total value of the sales closed in 2016 respectively).
The Agency may increase the allocation of separate budgets in order to better meet the multi-annual nature of the activities and the inevitable delays in contract signing, deliveries and payments. Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 The level of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.g.)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/37 REPLY OF AGENCY 3.2.8.
The Agency agrees with the outcome and clarifies that the Agency records all financial transactions in the financial system provided by the European Commission, updated, maintained and validated by the Commission.
With the outsourcing of the Service Accounting to the Commission from October 2017, the Agency will accept the validation of the accounting system provided by the Commission in 2018.
Since the ARIS primary site and the disaster management site were migrated to the internal ACER data centre in early April 2016, and integrated in a single site in June 2017 in order to optimise and improve performance and to improve the increasing space requirements, it is no longer possible to maintain operations.
However, it should be noted that the current situation, in which the maintenance of the plant cannot be ensured, has been imposed on the Agency by the serious reduction in its budget in the last two years.
The Agency has repeatedly warned the Commission and the budgetary authorities about the serious consequences of budgetary constraints, but has not achieved a result in terms of additional resources.
The Agency will continue to work to restore a site for disaster management for ARIS, but will not provide a financial contribution in 2018.
The restoration of the site for disaster management would require additional financial resources to the Agency.
Given that the risks associated with BREXIT were considered to be low and limited, the management only conducted an informal analysis of Brexit in 2017.
At the beginning of 2018, the Agency published a comprehensive analysis of the impact of Brexit on the organisation management, operation and financial areas by highlighting the impact and the necessary measures.
In 2014, the Management Board of the Agency adopted Decision AB No 15/2014 on the Agency's language regime.
Nevertheless, the Agency still needs to translate the job advertisements published on the EPSO website into all official EU languages.
Due to the very limited financial resources that the budget authority has repeatedly shown against the budget, the Agency is unable to raise the translation costs for every single job advertisement in all official EU languages for the publication of this call on the EPSO website.
In 2017, four out of nine job advertisements, including two public calls, were published on the EPSO website and were therefore translated into all official EU languages.
The remaining five notices of positions in operational departments were published only on the Agency's website, as they were, essentially, of interest to applicants, who were already active in the field and who as a rule follow the Agency's actions on our website.
This approach represents a pragmatic weighting between contacting potential applicants and the efficient use of limited resources.
3.2.12.
In 2018, the Agency will begin electronic procurement, which will be extended in 2019 to the use of electronic invoicing and the electronic transmission of offers.
3.2.13.
Following the report of the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) on Human Resources Management, the Agency has agreed with the IAS on an action plan and is currently implementing the proposed improvements.
EN C 434/38 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.
The B'ro of the Board of European Regulators for Electronic Communications (hereinafter referred to as the B'ro) based in Riga was established by Regulation (EC) No 1211/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (33).
The table contains the most important figures for the B되ro (34).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 4 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 27 (1) The figures for the budget are based on the appropriations for payments.
(2) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff, and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the B shall be provided by the European Parliament and the Council, the declaration of the European Parliament and the Council of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Communities, the declaration of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament of the European Communities of the European Parliament of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities and the European Communities of the European Communities, the European Communities and the European Communities, the European Communities, the European Communities and the European Communities of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Communities and the Council of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities, the European Communities, the European Communities and the European Communities, and the European Parliament of the European Communities of the European Communities, the European Communities, the European Parliament, the European Communities and the European Communities, the European Communities, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Communities, the European Communities, the European Parliament and the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, and the Council of the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, and the Council of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament and of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and Council, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council and of the European Parliament and the European Parliament and of the European Parliament, the Council, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament,
(a) the financial statements of the financial year (35) and the financial implementation reports (36) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the financial statements underlying the financial year (35) pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The annual accounts of the FROZ for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the financial and financial situation of the FROZ for the year ending 31 December 2017, the results of its financial statements and its cash flows and the changes in the net financial statement for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's financial statements, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all the main matters.
OJ L 337, 18.12.2009, p. 1.
(34) Further information on the conditions and conditions of the BvP can be found on its website www.berec.europa.eu.
(35) The annual financial statements comprise the financial statements, the financial statements, the financial statements, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, as well as a summary of the financial statements and other financial statements.
(36) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarise all revenue and expenditure projections, as well as explanations.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.3.6.
Note 3.3.7.
In December 2016, the B▁Ankunftszeitro commissioned the Translation Centre for the Institutions of the European Union (CdT) to translate four calls for expressions of interest for the establishment of reserve lists, even though all the posts approved by the budget authority in the B, ros establishment plan were filled.
The payment made on this order in March 2017 amounted to 106 432.50 euros (or 2.5% of the 2017 budget).
3.3.8.
COMMENTS ON THE THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.3.9.
In the course of this year's audit of the EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the aspect of the timely (re)validation of the accounting systems.
In 2016, the B thero delegated its accounting function to the Commission's accounting officer.
In 2017, it introduced a new paperless system.
Although these events led to significant changes in the B to the B to B to B to B to B to B to B to B to B to B to B in 2013, the system has not been re-validated since 2013.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.3.10.
In December 2017, the B燃ro signed legal commitments and commitments of EUR 20 000 for a course of training planned for the end of March 2018.
The financing of 2018 activities from the 2017 budget is in contradiction with the budget principle of the year.
In August 2015, the B sucho launched an invitation to tender for a multi-service framework agreement in the cascade system, covering an estimated market volume of EUR 3 million to organise and plan events such as meetings, workshops, conferences, etc.
In addition, the competitive process only covered the bidder's administrative fees, but not the potential event costs.
The award procedure thus did not provide adequate price competition, which might not provide the most economically advantageous offer.
3.3.12.
In line with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (37) (38). In the light of the need for a corresponding framework for EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT framework covering all phases of public procurement procedures, with the launch of tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of procurement documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
(37) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government 79).
(38) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
EN C 434/40 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.13.
On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom (UK) informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, the B₺ro did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organization, its operations, and its accounting operations.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM CONVENTION 3.3.14. The annex gives an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/41 ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's comments From previous years The Court's comments The budget for the 2014 budget for the contributions of national regulatory authorities of the EFTA(1) countries that have observer status in BEREC were not paid in the absence of agreements with these countries.
In March 2016, the B懸ro initiated an award procedure with the aim of concluding a framework contract with the two international schools in Riga for the children of its staff.
The 400 000 Euro framework agreement signed in July 2016 is therefore based on conflicting concepts, creating legal uncertainty for the B尽ro and the schools.
In addition, a framework agreement in this particular case was unnecessarily.
In the course of a reclassification, a staff member was placed directly in step 2 rather than step 1 of a higher grade, which was contrary to the EU Staff Regulations.
In March 2016, the B underline signed a contract worth 60,000 euros to provide professional support and consulting services in the area of human resources.
In 2016, the average employment of the staff of the agency was 2,58, with a staff turnover of 25 %.
A possible reason is the correction coefficient for the host State for salary costs (73%).
Periodic external performance evaluations are not required in the B这ros regulations.
The B-ro, together with the Commission, should undertake such an evaluation at least every five years, as most other agencies do.
Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 European Free Trade Association (EFTA). State of correction acceptance (completed/going/outgoing/n.e.) Temporary (not under control of the B) n.e.c. n.e.n. Excluded (not under control of the B) (1) EN
EN C 434/42 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE BORO 3.3.7. In view of the high staff turnover, in which the management saw a risk factor for the implementation of its work programme, the Management Committee of the BORO of BEREK called for at least 75% (39) of the job profiles in the Agency to be set up reserve lists.
In order to fulfil the obligation to publish calls for expressions of interest (40) on the EPSO website (41), BEREC's B porcelain had to transfer the documents to all the official languages of the EU.
With pre-established reserve lists, it is possible for the Agency to meet the requirement of the Management Committee to keep the quota of vacant posts below 15% and to send job vacancies within one month of the requirement for recruitment.
To avoid the high cost of the mandatory translations in the future, BEREK's B'ro intends to develop standard templates of calls and short job-specific sections for translation.
3.3.9.
2016 BEREK's B▁riskierro transferred its financial management to the European Commission.
Therefore, the accountant of the European Commission (within the DG Budget) provides all the services required under Article 50 of the Framework Financial Regulation of the agencies, including the validation of local systems.
The validation approach is currently in progress and has been announced by the European Commission's invoicing officer in an official note with the reference number Ares(2018)3149885 of 14 June 2018.
The European Commission's accounting officer's services will complete the procedure and submit a report on the results in the fourth quarter of 2018.
3.3.10.
BEREK's BEK's preparation for further training started in November 2017, started to communicate with potential trainers and to communicate the possibilities of the venues.
It was therefore necessary to sign the contract with the organiser to ensure the feasibility of both the instructors and the instructors and the organiser as well as the venue for the planned dates of the training.
The contract was signed in December 2017, and a corresponding commitment was made in accordance with the financial regulation prior to the signing of the contract.
Experience shows that it is very difficult to organize a training in the first quarter of a year without transferring funds from the previous year; BEREC's BEREC's BEREC's BEREC BEREC will therefore start to prepare a later start of training in the first quarter of a year.
3.3.11.
The decision for a framework contract was made in 2015.
The Commission considers that it is consistent with the financial regulation as other EU institutions have concluded several such agreements and have still concluded agreements (e.g. on travel and banking services).
Due to the specific nature of BEREC's activity, BEREC's activity involves a large proportion of the expenditure of BEREC's events, of which BEREC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC BELEC, of which BEREC's BELEC's BELECs BELEC's BELEC, of which BELEC's BELEC's BELEC BELEC's BELEC BELEC BELEC, of which BELECs BELECs BELEC, of which BEREC's BELEC's BELEC of which BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC, the BELEC's BELEC's BELEC, of which BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC's BELEC is the national regulatory authority.
Therefore, it should be noted that the contractor has no influence on this type of expenditure.
Following the comments and the valuable exchange of views with the Court, the BEREC's B views will also take into account other types of framework contracts that were not provided for under the 2015 legal framework when the procurement procedure was reopened.
BEREC's B駄ro takes note of the Court's observations and informs the Court that it intends to implement these modules by the end of 2018 by considering the feasibility of the Agency's corresponding budget.
3.3.13.
A review of the impact on the Agency's workload could only take place after the EU-United Kingdom relations had ended.
Considering that the allocations and the staff allocations of BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BER BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BER BEREC BEREC BER BEREC BER BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BEREC BER BEREC BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER BER
(39) See page 9 of document MC (16) 136, Annual and Multiannual Programming of the BEREC Office Activities 2017-2019 (annual and multiannual programming of the BEREC Office's activities), of 9.12.2016; https://berec.europa.eu/eng/ document_register/subject_matter/berec_office/office_annual_work_programmes/6594-annual-and-multilingual-programming-of-the-berec-office-activities-2017-2019 (40).
(41) Article 11 of Decision MC/2015/3: Decision of the Management Committee of BEREC, laying down general implementing provisions, laying down the procedure for the recruitment and the use of temporary staff pursuant to Article 2(f) of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Union.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/43 3.4.
EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR CEDEFOP INTRODUCTION 3.4.1.
The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (hereinafter referred to as the Centre), based in Thessaloniki, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (42).
The main task of the Centre is the promotion and further development of vocational training at Union level.
3.4.2.
The table contains the main figures for the centre (43).
Table Main figures for the Centre 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 18 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 117 (1) The figures for the budget are based on the appropriations for payments.
(2) Staff shall comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
(a) the financial statements of the Centre of the financial statements (44) and the financial statements of the financial statements (45) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the financial statements underlying the financial statements in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The year ending December 31, 2017, the Centre's annual accounts represent the Centre's annual and financial position as at December 31, 2017, the results of its financial statements and cash flows as well as the changes of the net financial statement for the financial year ending December 31, 2017, in agreement with its financial rules and the invoicing rules adopted by the Commission's invoicing officer which are based on internationally recognized accounting grounds for the public sector in all important respects.
OJ L 39, 13.2.1975, p. 1.
(43) Further information on the Centre's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.cedefop.europa.eu.
(44) The annual financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow account, the table of changes in the net assets, and a summary of the financial statements and other results.
(45) The budget implementation reports comprise the overviews which sum up all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/44 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.4.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Judicial judgement on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.4.6.
3.4.7.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment. COMMENTS ON LEGALITY AND ORDERITY OF THE PROJECT 3.4.8.
The management of two recruitment procedures for management positions showed weaknesses and the procedures are considered to be inadequate.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY SURVEY AND SERVICES 3.4.9 The Centre publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Office for Personnel Selection (EPSO).
As part of its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a harmonised framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (46) (47). As a requirement for the EU institutions is also applicable, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system, covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents for contract announcements in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
The center had not introduced any of these tools by the end of 2017.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.4.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented a report on the Centre's web-based services (48) in November 2017.
(46) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(47) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(48) The court did not carry out this inspection work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/45 REPLY OF THE CENTRE REPRESENTATION REMARKS ON THE LEGALITY OF REGISTERS 3.4.8. 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/45 REPRESENTATION OF THE CENTRE REPRESENTATION of THE LEGALITY AND ORDER LEGALITY OF THE LEGAL PROPOSALS 3.4.8. 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/45 REPRESENTATION OF THE CENTRE REPRESENTATION OF THE LEGALITY AND ORDER LEGALITY OF THE PROPOSALS 3.4.8.
We take note of the Court's comment on the irregularities of the two recruitment procedures.
Cedefop is currently conducting an in-depth evaluation of the two procedures and is of the opinion that in these two and in recruitment procedures in general remedies in order to address the weaknesses identified by the Court.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.4.9
Cedefop uses the EPSO platform in some cases.
Cedefop publishes its job offers on its own website and on the agency's own on-line platform, accessible to all EU citizens, and uses various vacancies for the promotion of job offers, including ReferNet, SkillsNet, Board of Directors, and other opportunities such as networks of economists, etc. Cedefop publishes the job offers for the position of Director and Deputy Director of the EPSO, and uses its social media opportunities for leadership positions.
Cedefop believes that the additional costs associated with the translation of the job offers into all EU official languages for the EPSO portal are not of any benefit.
Cedefop took the first steps to follow the electronic call for tenders and the electronic submission of tenders (modules of the platform ăe-Prior for the follow-up in autumn 2018), in compliance with the deadline for the application of the electronic exchange of information with economic operators set out in Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement to all public contracting entities (http://ec. europa.eu/growth/single-market/public-procurement/e-procurement_en).
Cedefop is working with the Commission's Directorate-General for the Directorate-General DIGIT, which is responsible for the involvement of the public authorities.
The first general call for tenders using the modules of the electronic call for tenders and the electronic submission of tenders will be launched in October 2018.
All general procedures are then carried out using the electronic tools.
The point in time for the start of the electronic invoicing depends on whether the management of Cedefop decides whether to introduce invoicing in accordance with the requirements of the e-invoicing system (which uses e-invoicing as a module) or to use the Fibus internal platform (which requires a link to the e-invoicing platform).
EN C 434/46 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR AIR SAFETY (EASA) INTRODUCTION 3.5.1.
The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), which is based in K toln, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council (49), repealed by Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (50).
The table gives the main figures for the Agency (51).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 192 Total staff on 31 December (1) 771 (1) The staff includes officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts shall consist of the annual accounts (52) and the annual accounts reports (53) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the reports underlying the financial statements referred to in Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the Agency's annual and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its annual accounts and cash flows as well as the changes in the net annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector as a whole in all material matters.
OJ L 240, 7.9.2002, p. 1.
OJ L 79, 19.3.2008, p. 1.
(51) Further information on the Agency's responsibilities and responsibilities can be found on its website www.easa.europa.eu.
(52) The financial statements include the balance sheet, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the balance sheet of changes in net balance, and a summary of the underlying financial statements and other information.
(53) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews, which summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/47 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue and revenue underlying the annual accounts C 434/47 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue and revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.5.5. In our assessment the revenue and revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are, in all essential respects, legal and orderly.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.5.6.
3.5.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNT 3.5.8.
The Court considers it necessary to strengthen the independence of the accountant by direct reporting to the Director (administrative matters) and to the Board of Directors (functional matters) of the Agency. COMMENTS ON LEGAL ACTIVITY AND ACTIVITY OF THE PRINCIPLES 3.5.9.
Framework agreements are concluded with companies to establish the terms and conditions applicable during the period of the agreement for certain procurements (individual contracts).
For the provision of IT services of up to EUR 22 million, the Agency used a framework agreement with three contractors in the cascade system.
In this procedure, contractors are placed in a hierarchy (the cascade) following a competitive procedure, which must be respected in all individual cases.
However, the terms of the Framework Agreement were not specific enough to allow fair competition and to justify the establishment of a ranking of contractors for all future individual contracts.
In accordance with the provisions of the Financial Regulation(54), the individual items of the of those items must be awarded by means of a competitive procedure between the selected contractors.
3.5.10.
The Agency's financial provisions (55) must be approved by the Board of Directors, either in the Agency's annual work programme or through an ad hoc financing decision.
An IT framework agreement with a maximum amount of EUR 15 million has been tendered and signed, although the financing decision only covered EUR 5 million.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including EASA) with a contractor on the acquisition of IT hardware and software and on maintenance and support services (IT services).
The contractor of the framework agreement acts as intermediary between the agency and companies that can provide the IT services.
Most of these IT services and the prices of these services were set out in the framework agreement concluded in the context of the competitive award procedure, but these set out the procurement of non-specific IT services.
In case of a paid payment of around 300 000 euros, the agency, via the contractor, had acquired IT services without a competitive process.
In 2017, payments to the Contractor of the Framework Agreement of a total of 2 million euros were made in total in H: the total amount of payments to the Contractor of the Framework Agreement in H: the amount of payments made to the Contractor of the Framework Agreement in H: the amount of payments in H: the amount of payments in H: the total amount of payments to the Contractor of the Framework Agreement in the amount of the payments in H: the amount of payments in H: the total amount of payments made to the Contractor of the Framework Agreement in H: the amount of payments in H: the amount of payments made in the amount of 2 million euros to the Contractor of the Framework Agreement in H: the amount of payments to the Contractor of the total of the amount of the payments in H: the amount of payments in H: the amount of payments in H: the amount of payments in H: the total of payments made in 2017 in H: the amount of payments made in H: the amount of the payments made in H: the amount of the payments of the payments made in H: the amount of the payments to the amount of the amount of the total of the payments of the payments to be made to the total of the payments made in the total of of the payments to be made in the payments made in H: the amount of the total of the total of the payments in H:
3.5.12.
(54) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 (OJ L 122, 12.5.2012, p.
(55) EASA financial provisions, Article 68 (2) and (3).
EN C 434/48 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.13.
In line with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (56) (57). As a requirement also applies for the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT framework covering all stages of public procurement procedures, and has launched electronic invoicing tools (2010), electronic publication of documents on contract notices in the EU's Official Journal (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
According to the Commission, the Agency had, by the end of 2017, introduced the electronic invitation to tender and the electronic submission of tenders for certain procedures, but not electronic invoicing.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.5.14.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the preparation of the European Aviation Safety Plan by EASA (58).
The Agency drew up an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
(56) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(57) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (ăe-Government)
(58) The farm has not done this processing work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/49 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years observations of the Court Although the activities financed by the industry led in 2016 to a deficit of 7.6 million euros, the budget results differ from year to year(1), and the Agency has accumulated a surplus of 52 million euros from this type of activity.
The Agency's Supervisory Decree specifies that the fees to be paid by the industry should be adequate to cover the Agency's costs for the associated licensings.
In the period 2014-2016, the Agency used 9.4 million euros (2016: 4.4 million euros) of its accumulated overshoot to finance the cost of 12.4 million euros (2016: 4.4 million euros) of renovations (and relocations) in the period 2014-2016.
The Commission, for its part, contributed EUR 3 million from the EU budget for this purpose.
Year 2016 2016 Progress of revisions (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
EN C 434/50 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.5.8.
The Agency has conducted this issue within the framework of the Agency's network's Forum to promote opportunities and reach a common position.
The Agency will implement the agreed common approach and in any case will clearly separate the role of the invoicing officer from operational functions and involve the Board of Directors in the renewal and evaluation cycle.
3.5.9.
In order to prepare this procedure, the Agency carried out a market analysis and concluded that the main IT service providers supported all the necessary services under this procedure.
As a result, the Agency has concluded that a multi-framework agreement with a new call for competition would result in a high administrative burden, which in comparison with the advantage that might result from it was considered as immediate.
As in the case of high-value tenders and as a result of the Court's comment, the Agency will in the future increase the number of competitions in the future, in order to increase competition.
The aim of this framework agreement is to support the proof of concept and the initial phase of a new project (Data4Safety), the financing and structure of which has developed over months with a number of parties.
The order value amounted to 15 million euros, but the financial obligations are, in the end, to a maximum of 4 million euros.
Thus, the possibility of making payments beyond this amount, is beyond this amount.
3.5.11.
The Agency considers that this approach, when using the existing interinstitutional framework agreement, is in line with the principle of sound financial management.
In the present case, a fee of EUR 24 816.60 was considered appropriate compared to the volume of the purchase and the required effort.
This facilitate was provided for in the framework agreement and the agency has used it for compatibility purposes.
In 2015, the Agency's Management Board (Decision 08-2015) decided that the working language at EASA was English in terms of recruitment and selection procedures.
This decision was notified to the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) which does not accept the decision as an exception to its provisions for the publication of job vacancies in all languages and the decision does not meet the needs of the Agency.
The network of agencies has recently set up an online platform, through which agencies can publish their job offers on a wider scale.
EASA regularly publishes external job advertisements on this new platform.
3.5.13.
As the Court noted, last year the instrument for the electronic submission of procurement procedures was introduced.
For the electronic invoicing the business specifications were completed in 2017, and within the framework of the resources and priorities of the agency a IT-L-L-sung is sought.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/51 3.6.
EUROPEAN BANKING BANKS INTRODUCTION 3.6.1.
The European Banking Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) (hereinafter referred to as the Authority) was established in London by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (59). referred to as the Authority (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Authority') was established by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Authority') and by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Authority').
3.6.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the table (60).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) 38 Total staff on 31 December (1) 190 (1) The staff comprises officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the staff.
(a) the annual accounts of the financial statements (61) and the financial statements (62) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the annual accounts statements (62) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.6.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the accounts and financial situation of the accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the results of their accounts and cash flows, and the changes in the net accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the accounting officer of the Commission, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12.
(60) Further information on the conditions and conditions of the conditions can be found on their website www.eba.europa.eu.
(61) The annual financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net income and a summary of the financial statements and other statements.
(62) The reports on budget implementation include reports on revenue and expenditure, which summarise all revenue and expenditure, as well as reports on expenditure.
DE C 434/52 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal nature and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Legal nature and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.6.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.6.6.
Emphasis on a case 3.6.7. Without questioning his judgment, the Court points out that the United Kingdom notified the European Council on 29 March 2017 of its decision to withdraw from the European Union.
An agreement on the details of the withdrawal is currently being negotiated.
The London-based account has prepared its annual accounts and the information available on the basis of the information available at the time of signature (May 3, 2018).
3.6.8.
On 20 November 2017, the General Affairs Council of the European Union of the European Union decided to move the headquarters of the Council of the European Union to Paris, France.
The move is planned for early 2019, and, in its annual accounts for the related costs, the Beh the Beh, in its annual accounts for the costs of 6.7 million euros in turnover and 11.2 million euros for contractual payments, which for the Bh, in the future the Bh, is still to be made in London.
3.6.9.
3.6.10.
In four of the five open procurement procedures, only one bidder fulfilled the award criteria for quality, all other bidders were excluded.
This suggests that the term overemphasizes the quality criteria.
It is not possible for such procedures to identify the most economically viable solutions for which quality and price should be balanced.
3.6.12.
The publication of job advertisements on its own website and on social media, and usually not on the website of the European Office of Personnel Selection (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity and allow the citizens of Europe to consult job advertisements of the various European institutions and agencies.
3.6.13.
In its Framework Financial Regulation (63) (64) the Commission is currently developing an overall IT package covering all stages of public procurement, which is designed to ensure a uniform approach to the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in public procurement procedures.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.6.14.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a review report on supervisory convergence (65) report on colleges and training (65). The report presented an action plan for action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
(63) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(64) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (ăe-Government)
(65) The farm did not carry out these preparatory work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/53 3.6.15.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory authorities (66) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (67).
IMPLEMENTATION OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.6.16. The annex gives an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(66) EBA, the European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Occupational Pensions and the European Securities and Markets Authority.
(67) The Court has not carried out this evaluation work.
C 434/54 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Observations from the Court To cover the higher school fees the staff members whose children attend primary or secondary school receive an educational contribution in addition to the educational allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations.
In 2012, the total amount of education was around 76,000 euros.
Year 2012 Status of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.) Completed (in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/55 REPLY OF THE OBJECTIVE 3.6.11.
In carrying out procurement procedures, the EBA strives to use all the tools available to it to maximize competition.
At four of the five procedures, the weighting of quality and price was 60 to 40, and at the other 50 to 50. In our opinion, the low level of participation in the financial assessment to be undertaken by the Court is to be reduced to factors to which the EBA has no influence; among other things, the low level of interest in the tender is the low level of interest in the tender (due to the exchange rate risk, the contract volume, the high costs of participation in the tender and the low profit margins) and the low quality of the professional offers.
EBA publishes its job advertisements in numerous media: EBA website, Twitter and LinkedIn, EU Training, EuroBrussels and EurActiv, ESCB-HRC network, Financial Times, and similar (for positions with a higher profile).
In February 2018, the EBA published 10 job advertisements on the EPSO website in all EU official languages.
The EBA believes that, by using the above-mentioned channels, the EBA ensures complete transparency in the publication of job advertisements and reaches the target audience among EU citizens.
EBA will start the system of electronic submission of offers (e-submission) in 2019 and will undergo training and test the updates of the introduced system during the first half of the year.
EN C 434/56 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.
EUROPEAN CHEMICAL AGENCY (ECHA) INTRODUCTION 3.7.1.
The European Chemicals Agency (hereinafter ‘the Agency'), based in Helsinki (hereinafter ‘the Agency'), was established by Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (68).
Its main task is to ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment and to ensure the free movement of substances in the internal market while improving competitiveness and innovation.
The Agency also promotes the development of alternative assessment methods for the risks associated with substances.
3.7.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Agency (69).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 112 Total staff on 31 December (2) 563 (1) The budget figures are based on the appropriations for payments. (2) The staff are civil servants, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
RELIABILITY STATEMENT OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE ً THE REMARK OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE RELATING TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL IN 2016 110 578 REPRESENTATIVES 3.7.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts (70) and the annual accounts (71) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the annual accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.7.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's annual and financial position as of 31 December 2017, the results of its financial statements and cash flows as well as the changes in the net accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules of the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector.
OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1.
(69) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.echa.europa.eu.
(70) The financial statements comprise the balance sheet, the balance sheet, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, as well as a summary of the financial statements and other statements.
(71) The budget implementation reports include the overviews, which sum up all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/57 Highlighting a case 3.7.5.
Without questioning its judgment in paragraph 3.7.4, the Court would stress that the Agency is partly self-financed and that it receives a fee from any company applying for the registration of chemicals, as provided for in the REACH Regulation (72).
The applicable charges are based on the size of the enterprises (smallest enterprises, small, medium, large enterprises) and the quantity of the registered chemicals (various quantity thresholds).
3.7.6.
As provided for in the implementing regulation(73), the Agency calculates and invoices the fees on the basis of information provided by the companies at the time of the application.
Since the first registrations in 2009, around 30% of the companies reported that they were micro-enterprises, small or medium-sized enterprises.
The agency has made considerable efforts to set up a system for ex-post processing, with which the information of these applicants on the enterprise size of the enterprise is ex-post processing.
Thus, the Agency was able to find that, on the basis of the above, some 55% of the above-mentioned companies, which according to their own data were micro, small or medium-sized enterprises (16 % of all enterprises), had misstated their size, leading to lower costs.
In order to remedy the situation, the agency has charged around 16.4 million euros in order to correct the situation in the course of the years, as a result of ex-post inspections.
However, the amount of overruling is substantially lower, and the remaining amount of required overruling was not known at the end of 2017 (74).
This observation shows the limitations of a system based on the claims of the applicants in too high a level.
The REACH Regulation stipulates that the quantities declared by the enterprises are the responsibility of the Member State authorities responsible for enforcement.
The agency is therefore not involved in the revision of this second element for the calculation of fees.
Payments Judicial ruling on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.7.8.
According to our assessment, the payments underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending December 31, 2017 are legal and regular in all essential respects.
3.7.9.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.7.10.
The Agency's ex post surveys have shown that more than half of the companies that registered and reported chemicals were micro-enterprises and small or medium-sized enterprises that were wrong in terms of size (see paragraph 3 in paragraph 3 of this article for highlighting the issue of chemicals).
Some of this can be explained by the Commission's complex regulations for the determination of enterprise size (75) and partly by the financial incentive to indicate too small size, since registration fees for enterprise size are far higher.
As the original registration fees are collected on the basis of the stated company fees, incorrect information could have a significant negative effect on the Agency's revenues, if they are not discovered.
Although the agency is the agency's subcontractors for the smaller companies listed within the scope of ex-post-- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of the- of of- of the- of- of- of of the- of- of- of- of the- of- of- of- of- of- of the- of- of of- of of- of- of the- of- of- of- of- of- the- of- of- of- of- of- of of- of- of- of of the- of- of the- of of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of- of the- of of of of- of- the- of- of- of of- of- of- of- of- of the- of- of- of- of of of- of- of
(72) Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006.
(73) Article 13 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 340/2008 of 27 June 2008 on fees and charges payable to the European Chemicals Agency pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) (OJ No L 271, 27.9.2008, p.
(74) At the end of 2017, the ex-post----berphungen for the registrations were completed by 2012, but are still under way for the following years.
(75) Commission Recommendation of 6 May 2003 on the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36).
EN C 434/58 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.11.
If errors are detected, the Agency will charge the difference between the original amount paid and the final amount paid as well as an administrative fee.
On 31 December 2017, the amount to be recovered amounted to EUR 4.7 million, of which EUR 3.2 million was related to the amount of administrative fees.
However, it appears that the Agency is encountering difficulties in the recovery of administrative fees.
In its 2017 financial statements, the Agency recorded a reversal of EUR 2.8 million of irrecoverable claims (i.e. EUR 600,000 more than at the end of 2016).
3.7.12.
The exercise of control over the quantities declared by the undertakings is the task of the Member State authorities responsible for enforcement and the Agency has no enforcement powers (see paragraph 3 of this paragraph for the clarification of the facts in paragraph 3.7.5).
The measures taken by the enforcement authorities of the Member States are coordinated by the Forum for the exchange of enforcement information.
On 6 December 2017, the Forum adopted new strategies and minimum criteria for the enforcement of the chemicals regulations (ăStrategies and minimum criteria for enforcement of chemical regulations), which provide a framework for the development of national enforcement strategies.
The Agency's ability to fulfill its mission depends on the effectiveness of the implementation of this framework by the national authorities.
In its general report for 2017, the Agency stated that about two-thirds of companies did not update the registered information on the quantities of chemicals they handle.
This concerns the effective implementation of the REACH Regulation and the accuracy of the calculation of the cost.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.7.13. The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but generally not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
OTHER COMMENTS 3.7.14.
The Agency's income from fees is linked to the registration periods for chemicals in the EU, which are set out in the REACH Regulation (2010, 2013 and 2018).
The Agency therefore does not raise any notional expenses and has to struggle with a misrepresentation between relatively stable expenditures and more fluctuating, less predictable revenues, which makes budgeting more difficult.
The Agency is supported in dealing with this situation by a grant it receives from the Commission.
As the third and final registration period for chemicals expires in 2018 under the REACH Regulation, revenues from fees and charges are expected to fall from 2019 and the Agency will be dependent on the EU budget for the financing of the chemicals company from the EU budget.
CONTINUE CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.7.15. The appendix contains an overview of the corrective measures taken by the Court on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/59 Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 State of correction acceptance (completed/completed/excluded/ n.e.z.) In progress (1) In progress/excluded ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations The Court's estimates of the Agency's expenditures related to a new specific activity, the implementation of the Biocidal Products Regulation, were, in principle, covered by fees for the evaluation of the observations on registration of these products.
However, the fees collected in 2014 only covered 17% of this expenditure, so that the rest of the expenditure was actually financed by contributions from the Union (6.3 million euros) and EFTA countries (0.2 million euros) to the Agency's budget. At 10.1 million euros and 39% (2015: 7.3 million euros and 32%), the rate of committed appropriations committed to Title III (operational expenditure) in the following financial year (operational expenditure, REACH) was still high. Title IV (operational expenditure,, biocides, etc.) still covered 1.3 million euros and 68% (2015: 1.5 million euros and 74%).
Such a high transfer rate is in contradiction with the budgetary principle of principle of legality. The agency is able to use the austerely separate budgetary resources to better meet the multi-annual nature of the activities and the inevitable aberrations between contract signatures, deliveries and payments.
ECHA contributes to the functioning of the market for biocides and biocidal products.
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the structure and practical implementation of the ECHA's internal control system in relation to the Agency's processes and activities under the Biocidal Products Regulation is effective and efficient.
Although no serious findings were made, the IAS still sees the need for improvement.
Unlike most other agencies, ECHA's Recommendation does not explicitly require periodic external evaluations of their activities, which are substantially more important for performance assessment.
(1) In 2017, the Agency in the field of Biocides received in the amount of 8.1 million euros in fees (2016: 7.6 million euros) covering 65% of the costs of biocides (2015: 62% and 2016: 88%).
The rest was financed by contributions to the Agency's budget by the Union (EUR 6.3 million) and EFTA countries (EUR 0.2 million).
EN C 434/60 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.7.10.
The relevant legislation (REACH (Regulation on fees) 340/2008) does not require the Agency to carry out an ex-post monitoring of the size of all SME registrants.
The Agency's Board of Directors approved a concept in which SME registrants with the largest financial impact (i.e. with most registrations within the largest volume range) are mainly ξover-presenced.
In 2017, the agency also focused on SME registrants from the United Kingdom, in order to give their company size before the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. In the United Kingdom, the agency focused on the size of its SME registrants. In the United Kingdom, the company size was also the size of the company before the UK left the European Union.
In the future, we will be increasingly carrying out the implementation of the SME implementation, based on the cost-benefit-principle.
3.7.11.
REACH Regulation (EC) No 340/2008 does not provide the Agency with the tools necessary for the enforcement of the collection of administrative fees of higher fees.
The Agency proactively reminds debtors of their obligation to pay. If this does not succeed, it commissions local law firms to apply their outstanding fees and fees directly in the Member States.
To date, the law firms have contacted 74% of the companies that have to pay more than the administrative fees, and the result of this initiative will be subjected to a cost-benefit analysis to determine the next steps.
Member States have the primary responsibility for the enforcement of the REACH and CLP regulations, in particular the obligation to register chemical substances.
The ability of the agency to fulfil its mission and to obtain the appropriate revenues from the fees depends on the effectiveness of the implementation of enforcement strategies by the national authorities.
Discussions with the Commission are being held to address this problem.
3.7.13.
The Agency takes note of the previous comment, which is a horizontal matter which concerns a number of agencies.
The Agency publishes job offers similar to other agencies on its own website, on social media, and on the website of the EU Agency Network (EUAN) (https://euagencies.eu/).
In order to increase transparency and publicity and to enable the citizens to view job advertisements, the Agency recommends that the European Agency for Personnel Selection (EPSO) refer for its part to the EUAN website.
3.7.14.
The previous remark is correct.
The Agency shall be financed from a combination of revenue from fees and charges and from a compensatory subsidy from the European Union.
The Agency has submitted a number of alternative financing proposals to the Commission, including the introduction of a regular fee, as has been the case with a number of other EU agencies.
The Agency points out that, according to its Communication, the Commission will examine all possible options to ensure the Agency's sustainable financing in the future, in the light of the review of the REACH Regulation of 5 March 2018 (COM(2018) 116 final).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/61 3.8.
EUROPEAN ASSESSMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR INSURANCE AND ESTABLISHMENT OF AGE (EIOPA) INTRODUCTION 3.8.1.
The European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Occupational Pensions (hereinafter referred to as "Beh tor and also also "ÉIOPA") based in Frankfurt was established by Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (76).
The task of the organisation is to contribute to the definition of high-quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices, to contribute to the consistent application of the Union's binding legal acts, to encourage and facilitate the delegation of tasks and responsibilities among competent authorities, to monitor and assess market developments in their field of competence and to promote the protection of policyholders, pensionholders and beneficiaries.
3.8.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the survey (77).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) 24 total staff total on 31 December (1) 151 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the staff.
DECLARATION OF THE THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE INDEPENDENT CLEARANCE OF THE INDEPENDENT CLEARANCE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL IN 2016 21 139 JUDGMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT CLEARANCE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE 3.8.3.
(a) the annual accounts of the revenue and expenditure account (78) and the annual accounts (79) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017; and (b) the legality and regularity of the revenue and expenditure account for the financial year (79) pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.8.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the accounts and financial situation of the accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the results of their accounts and their cash flows and the changes of the net accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in compliance with their financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the accounting officer of the Commission, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector.
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 48.
(77) Further information on the requirements and circumstances of the project can be found on their website www.eiopa.europa.eu.
(78) The annual financial statements include the Annual Report, the Annual Report on financial results, the Cash Flows Statement, the Table of changes in net assets, as well as a summary of financial statements and other changes in financial statements.
(79) The budget implementation reports include the reports that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as the explanations.
DE C 434/62 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and orderliness of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Legality and orderliness of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.8.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and orderly in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.8.6.
Note 3.8.7. Without questioning its judgment, the Court points out that the United Kingdom notified the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union on 29 March 2017.
The EIOPA budget is financed 40% by the European Union budget and 60% by direct contributions from the EU Member States.
The United Kingdom's decision to leave the EU may result in a further decline in the income of the entity.
3.8.8.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.8.9.
At the Beh the Head of the Corporate Support Department is the head of the head of the accounting officer.
The Office publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Office of Personnel Selection (EPSO), which would result in transparency and publicity and enable the citizens and citizens to consult job advertisements of the various European institutions and agencies in the form of advertisements., RESULTS OF EXTERNAL EVALUATIONS, 3.8.11.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European Supervisory Authorities (80) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (81).
(80) EIOPA, European Banking Authority and European Securities and Markets Authority.
(81) The Court did not work in this evaluation work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/63 REPLY OF THE REPLY of the REPLY 3.8.9.
The accounting officer's reporting was addressed to the Head of the Corporate Support Department and to the Board of Directors until April 2018.
In the light of the final evaluation of the annual performance of the Invoicing Officer by the Board of Directors the Board of Directors did not assume any conflict with the hierarchical and functional independence of the Invoicing Officer.
A change took place in May 2018 to strengthen the position of the invoicing officer with the following new reporting lines: hierarchical reporting to the Executive Director and functional reporting to the Board of Directors.
3.8.10.
To be able to publish job advertisements on the EPSO website, they must be translated into all 24 official languages of the EU.
Since this has a significant impact on the budget, EIOPA has decided to use other media in which most EU agencies publish their job advertisements.
EIOPA also uses the agency's Inter-Agency Job Advertisement Board, a joint platform developed by the agency's network for job postings, to which all citizens have access.
In addition, EIOPA is in charge of a joint procurement procedure in order to announce recruitment procedures, which is more visible and reaches a wider audience in the EU.
EN C 434/64 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.
EUROPEAN INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE (EIT) INTRODUCTION 3.9.1.
The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (hereinafter called the Institute of Innovation and Technology (hereinafter referred to as the Institute of Innovation), and the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (hereinafter referred to as the Institute of Innovation and Technology), based in Budapest (hereinafter referred to as the Institute of Innovation and Technology), was established by Regulation (EC) No 294/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (82).
The aim of the Institute is to contribute to sustainable economic growth in Europe and to increase competitiveness by reinforcing the innovation capacity of the Member States and the European Union.
The Institute receives financial support from an increasing number of Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) which combine higher education, research and the economy and, in this way, support innovation and entrepreneurship.
The KICs coordinate the activities of hundreds of partners.
3.9.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the institution (83).
Table Main figures for the Institute 2017 Budget (million euros) (1) 303 Total number of actual staff on 31 December (2) 60 (1) The figures on the budget are based on the appropriations for payments. (2) The staff includes officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Institute.: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL'S RELIABILITY DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE COURT  EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT DECLARATION 2016 283 59 RELIABILITY DECLARATION 3.9.3.
(a) the financial statements of the Institute, consisting of the annual financial statements(84) and the financial implementation reports(85) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the financial statements underlying the financial statements, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Accountability of Accounts Controlling Controlling of Accounts Controlling of Accounts 3.9.4.
According to our assessment, the Institute's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 present the Institute's annual and financial position as of 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, as well as the changes in the net deficit for the year ending 31 December 2017, in compliance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, with all the essential interests as a whole.
Commission Regulation (EC) No 715/2009 of 26 July 2009 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 715/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1225/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1225/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1225/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the procedure for the application of Regulation (EC) No 715/2009 and Regulation (EC) No 1225/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1225/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council as regards the application of Regulation (EC) No 1225/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (EC) No 1225/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 26 July 2009 and Council Regulation (EC) No 1225/2009 of the Council and of the Council Regulation (EC) No 1225/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards Regulation (EC) No 1225/2009 of the Council as regards the Council
(83) Further information on the Institute's responsibilities and activities can be found on its website https://eit.europa.eu/.
(84) The annual financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in the net flow, as well as a summary of the underlying underlying financial statements and other explanations.
(85) The budget implementation reports comprise the reports, which summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/65 Legality and regularity of the accounts accounts income Legal judgement on the legality and regularity of the revenue and regularity of the accounts accounts 3.9.5. According to our judgement, the revenue and regularity of the accounts are legal and regular in all essential respects for the financial year ending 31 December 2017.
Payments Judicial ruling on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.9.6.
Other comments 3.9.7.
In December 2016 璝 shortly before the end of the period of funding (1 January 2016-31 December 2016)  - the EIT signed changes to the individual financial assistance agreements with the KIC EIT Digital, InnoEnergy, Health and RawMaterials.
The modification of the individual grant agreement with Climate KIC was even signed in January 2017, after the end of the grant period.
The increase in individual reimbursements agreed in these changes enabled the KICs to receive an additional 15 million euros in EIT financial support (6.0 million euros in addition for Climate KIC, 5.6 million euros for EIT Health, 2.2 million euros for KIC InnoEnergy and 1.2 million euros for EIT RawMaterials).
This approach contradicts the intention of strengthening the KICs' ability to tap into sources of finance and to encourage them to gradually reduce their financial dependence from the EIT.
It could also affect fair competition between the KICs, as the co-financing of the expenditure also plays a role in the annual grant decisions.
3.9.8.
Also due to changes in the business plans of KIC InnoEnergy and EIT Digital, some in the original business plans not planned activities in the total value of about 3.3 million euros and 0.6 million euros in the total amount were added.
According to the Court, the activity added in the case of KIC InnoEnergy represents a significant change in the original business plan, on the basis of which the maximum amount of financial assistance in question was granted.
Since the amount of the grants granted to each of the KICs is the result of a performance-oriented over-the-counter procedure to which their original proposed business plans are subject, a further substantial change to these plans is to be made to the grant decisions and to the equal treatment of the KICs and, therefore, to Article 180(4) of the Financial Regulation, which is incompatible with Article 180(4) of the Financial Regulation.
3.9.9.
COMMENTS ON THE LIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.9.10.
In 2017, the Institute introduced a paperless payment system.
Although this resulted in changes in his procedures and his accounting system, the accounting system has not been revalidated since 2012.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.9.11.
To further strengthen the internal control system for financial assistance to KICs, the EIT has introduced centralised ex ante controls for the KIC partners whose cost statements exceeded EUR 325 000.
The controls were carried out by two economic operators on behalf of the EIT (86) and carried out at certified cost statements of the KIC partners.
The results of the ex post controls carried out by another EIT-managed economic operator confirm that the new approach to certified cost statements is effective and important as most of the material errors identified concerned cost statements that had not been subjected to these ex ante controls.
(86) In previous years, the certification process was carried out by many private economic operators on behalf of the individual KIC partners, whose submitted cost statements exceeded the threshold of EUR 325 000 (refund of actual costs and unit costs).
EN C 434/66 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.12.
The business continuity plan and the plan for re-launching following a disaster recovery plan of the EIT were adopted in 2013 and are outdated.
For example, more than half of the members of the crisis management team no longer worked for the EIT in 2017.
An updated version of the Pl晃ne has been in the process for two years, but it has not yet been adopted.
As in previous years, the KICs did not, in full measure, withdraw the financial support granted by the EIT.
The approved total costs of the KIC value added activities of the FFS, which were functional before 2016 ( KIC of the first and the second wave combined), were 15% lower than those of the individual financial assistance agreements concluded at the beginning of 2016 (87).
The fact that the funds were not used was mainly due to the fact that the grant agreements were approved at a later stage and the multi-annual nature of the KIC-activities due to the incomplete implementation of the business plans and the self-financing rate of the administrative costs, which were higher than planned for some KICs, was mainly due to the fact that the funds were not used.
Some of these funds have been used to increase the cost of the KIC value-added activities to specific specific reimbursements (see 3.9.7).
In particular, the KICs of the second wave (EIT Health and RawMaterials) had to struggle with the delay in the start of their activities.
The performance of Climate KICs was particularly insufficient in the KICs of the first wave, according to the EIT assessment reports.
3.9.14.
The EIT evaluated the implementation of the business plans and then calculated some corrections.
However, these corrections did not have any financial impact on KICs.
In line with the Horizon 2020 methodology for the calculation of the financial contribution, the EIT applies only the higher of the two in the case of corrections necessary for financial controls and performance assessments.
While this methodology is appropriate for individual Horizon 2020 projects, it is less appropriate for the grants granted to KICs to finance a wide range of different activities.
It is questionable whether it is justified to set aside corrections to be made based on performance, e.g. for educational activities, against corrections to be made on the basis of financial controls, which can, for example, affect innovation projects.
3.9.15.
In 2017, all KICs, in line with the EIT guidelines, have approved sustainable funding, with an important step towards the KIC's greater sustainability in the future.
Nevertheless, the first wave KICs still generated little revenue (between 2% and 6% of the costs of the KICs' value added activities) and little progress was made in 2017.
Co-financing by the KIC partners is also low (and less than the ones originally agreed): KIC value-added activities are still financed by 62% to 90% by EIT, depending on KIC-level.
3.9.16.
The EIT publishes job advertisements on its own website and on the DG Human Resources and Security website, but generally not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.9.17.
Under its framework financial regulation, agencies should establish a single regulation for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (88). Given that a corresponding provision also applies for the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT summary that covers all stages of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic call for tenders in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
OTHER COMMENTS 3.9.18.
The current interim director of the EIT took office in July 2014.
A selection procedure for the appointment of a new director was launched in 2016, but was unsuccessful.
Since then, no new recruitment procedure has been initiated.
To fill this post over such a long period of time ad interim is contrary to the Statute, according to which a post may be temporarily occupied for a maximum of a year.
3.9.19.
Article 5(1) of the Statute of the EIT shall be directly recruited by the EIT staff within the framework of fixed-term contracts of employment and shall apply to the staff of the EIT to the conditions of employment of other servants of the European Union.
The EIT can therefore offer temporary temporary workers temporary employment with a maximum duration of five years which can be extended by five years.
Those employees who have started their activity at the EIT shortly after its foundation in 2009 will reach the maximum contract period of ten years in 2020, which in the years to come could result in instigation of the continuity of the measures and the administration.
(87) And still 6% lower than in the modified individual grant agreements concluded in December 2016 and January 2017.
(88) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/67 REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.9.20.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) carried out the monitoring of grant agreements in 2017 (89).
The Institute drew up an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
3.9.21.
In 2016-2017, the EIT, on behalf of the Commission, was subject to an interim evaluation for the period 2011-2015 (90).
CONTINUE CONTINUE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.9.22. The annex contains an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's previous observations.
(89) The court did not carry out this inspection.
(90) The Court did not provide this evaluation work.
C 434/68 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Year 2012 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 Progress of corrective action (completed/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress (1) (in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/initiated/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in the course of work/in the course of work/in the course of work/in the course of work/incompleted ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations No specific thresholds for specific categories of costs (staff costs, subcontracting, legal services, etc.) have been established in the grant agreements.
The Institute estimated that its budget requirements for 2014 were too high for EUR 13.1 million and EUR 5.6% (2013: EUR 3.4 million and 2.5% respectively) and that only EUR 220 million were committed to the EUR 233.1 million available.
The low implementation rate is mainly due to unused funds for grants (EUR 11.4 million) to finance KIC activities.
In the context of the KIC's business activities on the basis of which the grant agreements were concluded, the funds available to the Institute for 2014 did not have to be used to the full extent.
The unused funds will be included in the budget in the years 2015-2017 in accordance with the financial regulation of the Institute.
Although the KIC strategies have to develop sustainable financing, they still have to date, in the fifth year of their existence, to the fullest extent, to the financing by the Institute and the KIC partners.
Since its establishment in 2009, the Institute has had to struggle with a high personnel turnover and instabilization at the management level.
Two of the three Head of Unit posts have been vacant since 2013.
One of them has been completed ad interim since 2013, which is contrary to the statute, which provides for a maximum duration of one year.
The other currently has the COO, which is also interim director and, therefore, fulfils three functions at the same time.
In its Special Report No 4/2016, the Court concluded that the conditions under which the EIT contribution to the KICs should not exceed 25% should not provide a significant advantage, and that its abolition would significantly reduce the burden on the KIC partners on operational and financial reporting (4).
However, these certificates are of the highest quality, so that the security that can be derived from them is limited and the Institute must carry out additional controls.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/69 DE Remarks of the Court of Justice of the EIT-Gründenverordnung on the tasks of the Institute the ămobilisation of funds from public and private sources and the use of resources according to the provisions of this Regulation.
In particular, the Institute aims to generate a significant and growing share of its budget from private budget contributions and from revenue generated by its own activities.
Despite this provision, which clearly refers to the budget of the EIT, this contribution from the Horizon 2020 programme amounted to 99% of its budget for 2015.
Although the institution is authorised to use unused funds (i.e. funds not committed or released at the end of the year) in the budget for the following three years, it has not adjusted its procedures in time for the year to be able to budget the budget for the years 2015-2017 of the 2014 grant agreements to EUR 26,6 million.
These funds were available because the KICs used less funds than expected.
According to the Commission's original objective, the Institute should have its financial autonomy in 2010.
However, in June 2011 the Institute received financial autonomy only in part, because financial assistance and procurement procedures worth over EUR 60 000 are still subject to prior approval by the Directorate-General for Education and Culture, the Institute's financial assistance.
The institute supports the Master School program of EIT Digital, in which 16 European universities participate.
The model for the reimbursement of the costs of the universities is based on a combination of a lump sum of a maximum of 8 000 Euro/students (including the terms of the Erasmus Mundus programme) plus the actual costs, including a flat-rate calculated indirect costs.
On this basis, the universities received an average of 15 000 euros/students in 2015 (including the lump sum).
However, the model was not established at any time, and it is not possible to distinguish between the activities and the costs to be covered by the lump sum and the costs to be covered.
The Institute should switch to a clear and formally defined model, based on a single method, such as a single lump sum based on proof of costs.
Year 2015 Balance of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
C 434/70 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court of Auditors' observations Against the principle of sound financial management the Court ordered another KIC partner to pay public relations services of between EUR 800 and EUR 3 250 per day per person, which the Institute reimburses the institution in full (7).
For the organisation of conferences on innovation scheduled for 2015 and 2016, the Institute drew on a framework agreement of the Commission.
The prices agreed for these services ranged from 800 euros per day for a junior consultant and 2 250 euros per day for a senior consultant (and were almost four times higher than the rate agreed for a senior consultant in the framework agreement).
The services procured at these prices are more than 100 000 euros per conference.
The Court identified weaknesses in the ex-post over-prevention of the procurement procedures carried out by the legal entities of the KIC.
At least one of the legal entities of the KIC was the selection of the award procedures for the population that had to be superseded.
In addition, the court came to a different conclusion in the case of two award procedures in respect of their legality and regularity.
In these cases, the Institute had accepted the direct, or, more or less, expansions of the Institute.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded in its audit report ăGrant Management: Transition to Horizon 2020 (Financial Assistance Administration: transition to Horizon 2020) that the Institute has successfully adapted its procedures to the rules applicable to Horizon 2020, in particular to the rules for participation, and that the controls carried out by the Institute in the initial phase have generally proved to be an effective means of supporting new KICs.
The IAS also concluded that measures must be taken urgently to ensure that the existing legal framework for Horizon 2020 is fully applied and to further improve the start-up phase of new KICs. The Institute and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
At 0.4 million euros and 40 % respectively (2015: 0.4 million euros and 44 %), the rate of committed appropriations for Title II for the following financial year was high.
These transfers concern mainly year-round IT services and meeting costs to which no invoices have yet been received.
Year 2015 2015 State of adoption of correction (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.) n.e.c. 2016 Completed 2016 In progress 2016 n.e.c.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/71 EN Court's comments The grants for the calendar year 2015 were only awarded in April 2015 and the grant agreements were signed in June and July 2015.
For the calendar year 2016, the grants were awarded and the grant agreements were signed in April 2016.
Despite an improvement in 2016, these delays in the decisions on grants and the signing of grant agreements lead to uncertainty and the willingness of the partners to commit resources and to initiate the activities at the beginning of the year.
The most recent calls for new KICs, the subject areas of which were defined in the Strategic Innovation Agenda of the EIT for the period 2014-2020, were the subject of little competition.
Only seven proposals were submitted for the call for two KICs (Health and RawMaterials) launched in 2014.
As a result of the call for two additional KICs (food and manufacturing) published in 2016, three proposals were submitted, and the only proposal for KIC manufacturing (additional value in manufacturing) was not selected from Qualit onlysgr).
The Director's post has been filled since August 2014 s and another leader post has been filled since February 2013 s ad interim.
This is not only against the Statute, which states that the temporary occupation cannot last more than a year, that the frequent changes and long-term interim changes also affect the stakeholders and the strategic continuity. The Institute is an important player in the implementation of the Horizon 2020 programme, with a budget of 2.4 billion euros in the period 2014-2020.
The Commission has created a central support body for Horizon 2020 to ensure coherence between the relevant bodies in areas such as legal services, IT tools, grant management, dissemination and exploitation of research results, etc.
However, unlike the Commission's executive agencies and public-private partnerships, the institute does not have direct access to the support body, but, in any case, has to be approved by the Commission's superordinate directorate-general.
This specification influences the efficiency of the Institute's activities.
Year 2016 Update date (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.a.)
C 434/72 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court observations The coordination and representation of the KICs is carried out by the KICs' legal entities, which are financed almost entirely by the Institute.
The Court paid particular attention to the procurement procedures carried out by these bodies, which it considers to be a highly risky area.
In accordance with the 2015 grant agreements, the legal entities of the KICs and/or the KIC partners must ensure that the best possible price/performance ratio is achieved in procurements, or that the lowest price criterion is applied where appropriate.
For all contracts of more than EUR 60 000, the legal entities of the KICs and/or the KIC partners must, according to the grant agreements, invite at least three economic operators to submit tenders and document the award procedure to demonstrate its transparency.
The Court carried out a sample of procurement procedures of around 7 million euros carried out by the legal entities of the KIC and financed by the EIT.
The examination revealed considerable differences, such as direct procurement, absence of essential elements in tenders, significant extensions of initial extensions in terms of duration and/or scope, additions without limitation of duration and/or scope, or quality/price weightings, which led to price competition.
The Institute had also established the allocation rules in the procurement procedures of a KIC legal entity and established an action plan to improve the procurement procedures of all KIC legal entities in the future.
Despite the significant increase in the budget from EUR 309 million (2008-2013) to EUR 2.4 billion (2014-2020) and despite the fact that six and no longer three KICs have existed since the end of 2016, the number of posts granted to the Institute has barely changed (see Table 2).
As the Court noted in its Special Report No 4/2016 (9), there is a risk that the Institute will not have a sufficient capacity to deal with the increased workload.
The interim director of the institute pointed to this risk in the annual report of the institute for 2015.
Year of adoption of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/in progress/in progress) 2016 In the course of 2016 Outstanding (not under the supervision of the Institute) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (9) Since 2016, administrative costs have been capped in the grant agreements.
The need for budget appropriations for 2016 was overestimated by 13.1 million euros or 5.0 % (2015: 25 million euros or 9.4%), thus only 249.9 million euros was committed by the available 263 million euros.
The unused resources can be entered in the 2017-2019 budget.
The EIT financed an average of 90% of the eligible costs reported by the KICs under the 2015 grant agreements.
The contributions collected by the KICs from various sources accounted for 2.5% of the funds requested from the EIT.
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Innovation and Technology Institute must change its implementation mechanisms and some conceptual elements in order to deliver the expected impact.
The EIT continues to interpret the EIT Regulation differently, as set out in its response to the 2015 report.
In 2016, universities received an average of 17 000 euros per year per student based on the model described, which is based on a combination of actual costs and lump sums. The model was established in late 2016, and will be applied from 2017.
In 2016 (2015 Financial Assistance Act), the EIT reimbursed EUR 410 000 for this order.
The leadership position was occupied in February 2018.
In June 2018, the Commission initiated the recruitment procedure for the position of Director.
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology must change its implementation mechanisms and some conceptual elements in order to deliver the expected impact.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/73 REPLY OF THE INSTITUTE 3.9.7.
The EIT should make it clear that changes to the individual grant agreements under the KIC Framework Partnership Agreements of the EIT can be submitted at any time during the period under review.
The amendments of the KICs were subject to a technical and financial assessment by the EIT and the prior approval by the European Commission.
Subsequently, the changes were signed in December 2016.
In the case of EIT Climate-KIC, the KIC was formally informed of the approval of the amendment request on 21 December 2016 (i.e., within the period of application).
With regard to the increase in the individual reimbursements, the EIT points out that the KICs were not paid out any additional amount of financial assistance as a result of the changes to the individual financial assistance agreements in 2016.
The overall amount of the final financial assistance (241.8 million euros) was significantly lower than the initial amount (274.9 million euros).
With regard to the call for KICs to develop their own sources of funding and to become financially viable, please refer to our reply to section 3.9.15.
In the context of the assessment of the change, the EIT, after consulting the European Commission, concluded that the adjustment of the individual refund levels is in line with the applicable legal basis and does not affect the equal treatment of KICs.
The possibility of adjusting the individual refund amounts was open to all KICs on equal terms.
As regards the second observation, the EIT considers that the amendments were in accordance with Article 180(4) of the Financial Regulation's implementing provisions, as they did not call into question the decisions on the award of grants and did not contradict the equal treatment of applicants.
It should be noted that there is no provision for a materiality threshold that indicates the change in a measure in the assessment of whether the change is relevant to the provision of the grant, to be considered as material.
Whether the inclusion of new activities is in line with the provision in question must be determined on the basis of the relevance and impact of the activities for the entire KIC business plan on a case-by-case basis.
The EIT carried out the assessment before the approval of the change agenda and came to the conclusion that the changes did not call into question the decisions on the creation of grants.
Since each KIC had the possibility to incorporate new new opportunities into its changed business on equal terms, the equal treatment of KIC was also guaranteed.
Finally, the EIT points out that, in the case of EIT InnoEnergy, the only activity in question was only 3.9% of the revised budget estimate of the KICs budget.
At EIT Digital, this share was 0.6%.
3.9.10.
3.9.12.
The updated versions of the contingency plan and the plan for re-commissioning following a system breakdown will be adopted by the EIT in 2018.
3.9.13.
The 2016 individual financial assistance agreements with EIT Health and EIT RawMaterials were signed more recently than planned, as the framework partnership agreements had to be signed first.
The individual grant agreements for 2017 and 2018 were systematically signed in February, so that the KICs were able to take up their activities in good time in the respective year.
Due to their dynamic and fast-moving nature, innovative measures cannot be planned linearly.
Some innovation projects or projects do not meet the expectations of their potential and must be stopped during the implementation of the grant agreements. Furthermore, some of the operational activities of the KICs, such as master and doctoral studies, or long-term research and innovation projects, are planned from the ground up for several years.
The EIT aims to address this problem after 2020 by entering into multi-annual grant agreements with KICs, provided that the EIT budget allocates corresponding appropriations to commitments in multi-annual tranches.
In fact, the EIT has followed the methodology prescribed in the legal basis ăHorizont 2020, for the calculation of the grant without restriction, and will continue to abide by the current legislation in the future.
The financial sustainability of KIC is a unique ambition of the EIT-KIC model and one of the most difficult aspects of the EIT's mission.
In the meantime, some of the innovation communities can already have significant co-financing of their activities and generate significant revenue compared to their budgets.
For example, EIT Digital provided 26% (22 million euros) co-financing to cover the costs for the 2016 KIC value-added activities. In addition, the KIC's additional activities amounted to more than 200 million euros, and were provided and paid for by the partner organisations.
Another example is EIT Health: KIC's first year of operation generated more than EUR 6 million in revenue compared to the total funding it had received from the EIT (around EUR 19 million).
EN C 434/74 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.17.
The EIT intends to introduce the tools for the electronic tendering and the electronic submission of tenders once the necessary agreements have been concluded with the European Commission.
3.9.18.
The European Commission has announced the position of EIT Director on 1 June 2018 (91).
The first staff members came to the EIT in 2010 to reach the maximum employment of ten years in 2020.
The EIT is aware of the risks that were also pointed out in the Annual Activity Report of the EIT for 2017.
The EIT requested the legal opinion of the European Commission by letter of 14 May 2018.
OJ C 187 A, 1.6.2018, p. 6.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/75 3.10.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE SAFETY OF THE SEA TRANSPORT (EMSA) INTRODUCTION 3.10.1.
The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Lisbon, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council (92).
The Agency's tasks include the achievement of a high level of maritime safety, the prevention of ship pollution, the technical assistance of Member States and the Commission, and the monitoring of the application of Union legislation and the assessment of its effectiveness.
3.10.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (93).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 79 Total staff at 31 December (2) 250 (1) Budget data are based on the appropriations for payments. (2) staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
RELIABILITY DECLARATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE REFERRED TO IN THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE DECLARATION OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEPARTMENT IN 2016 71 246 JUSTICE 3.10.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(94) and the annual accounts reports (95) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the financial statements underlying the year's accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Our assessment shows that the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its annual accounts and cash flows as well as the changes in its net account for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's invoicing officer based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 208, 5.8.2002, p. 1.
(93) Further information on the Agency's responsibilities and activities can be found on its website www.emsa.europa.eu.
(94) The financial statements comprise the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the financial statements and other statements.
(95) The reports on budget implementation include the reports that summarise all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/76 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue of the revenue of the European Union on the basis of the annual accounts 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue of the European Union on the basis of the annual accounts 3.10.5.According to our assessment, the revenue of the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular.
Payments Judgments on the legality and legality of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.10.6.
3.10.7.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.10.8.
In 2014, the Commission concluded, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency), a framework agreement with a contractor on the purchase of software licenses and on maintenance and support services.
The contractor of the framework agreement acts as intermediary between the agency and companies that can meet the agency's needs.
For these intermediate services, the contractor of the framework agreement adds two to nine percent to the supplier prices. In 2017, the contractor of the framework agreement made payments of a total of 1.7 million euros.
The Agency did not systematically compare the calculated prices and prices with the offers of the companies and did not systematically compare the invoices issued to the Contractor of the framework agreement. COMMENTS ON the ECONOMICITY OF THE BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND THE PERFORMANCE 3.10.9. The Agency publishes job offers on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.10.10.
In accordance with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (96) (97). As a framework for the EU institutions applies, the Commission is currently developing a informatics framework, covering all stages of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.10.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented expert reports on project-funded measures and personnel management(98).
3.10.12.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance was carried out on behalf of the Commission in the period 2011-2016 (99).
The Agency has drawn up an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
(96) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Governance.
(97) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (ăe-Government)
(98) The court did not carry out this task.
(99) The Court did not carry out this evaluation work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/77 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years observations of the Court In 2014, the Agency concluded a six-year framework contract worth EUR 3.5 million for the acquisition of goods and services in the IT sector.
The agency supported the demand and expected order value, which resulted in the contract being phased out to 80% at the end of 2016.
A new procurement procedure must be launched four years earlier than expected, providing additional administrative costs.
In 2016, the Agency completed seven framework contracts for the acquisition of pollution control systems.
Each framework contract (each lot in the contract award procedure) referred to a specific procedure.
The procurement procedure was initiated in the assumption that the total value of the seven Framework Contracts would reach EUR 7 million.
This assumption, however, did not meet the Agency's needs, and seven framework contracts were signed, each amounting to EUR 7 million, representing a total value of EUR 49 million.
Year 2016 2016 State of adoption of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.) n.e.c.
DE C 434/78 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.10.8.
The Agency will remind the responsible project managers to consistently carry out the necessary checks on the prices charged by the provider and/or to verify whether the appropriate deadlines are applied.
EMSA will also request the leading public contractor in this framework agreement to ask the contractor regularly to always verify the market price/charge in the response to offer requirements.
3.10.9.
Following a court decision, EPSO decided that only job advertisements in the official official languages of the EU or in the languages specified in the Agency's decision making act of the EPSO could be published on the EPSO website.
Because of the high translation costs of this new policy (about 19000 EUR per advertised body), EMSA  this new body, like many other agencies  of the agencies, no longer uses EPSO services in its job advertised.
This point was raised in December 2015 by a number of agencies against the EPSO.
EMSA would like to see a resolution which would provide both a sufficient degree of transparency and a sound financial management principle.
The Agency strives to promote its job advertisements to a wide audience by spreading them to various social media used by many people.
It should be noted that most of EMSA's job advertisements are addressed to technical experts who regularly access EMSA's website.
In 2017, EMSA made extensive preparations for adapting all internal procedures to the use of e-procurement.
EMSA can best position that it has introduced the modules for electronic procurement since the beginning of 2018.
The deadline for the use of e-procurement by EU institutions is October 2018.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/79 3.11.
AGENCY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION FOR NETWORK AND INFORMATION SECURITY (ENISA) INTRODUCTION 3.11.1.
The European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also located in Athens and Heraklion(100), was established by Regulation (EC) No 460/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (101), which was replaced by Regulation (EU) No 526/2013 (102) after several amendments.
The Agency's main task is to improve the Union's ability to address and address network and information security problems by making use of the measures implemented at national and EU level.
3.11.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (103).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 11 Total staff numbers on 31 December (1) 70 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
We have (a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (104) and the annual accounts reports (105) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the annual accounts of the Agency, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The annual accounts of the Agency for the year ending December 31, 2017 constitute the Agency's annual and financial situation as of December 31, 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows and the changes in the net financial year ending December 31, 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's invoicing officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all the main interests of the Agency as a whole.
(100) The Agency's operational staff were transferred to Athens in March 2013.
OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 1.
OJ L 165, 18.6.2013, p. 41.
(103) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.enisa.europa.eu.
(104) The annual financial statements include the annual financial statements, the annual financial statements, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net income, and a summary of the underlying financial statements and other underlying financial statements.
(105) The budget implementation reports include the overviews, which summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/80 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the income underlying the annual accounts Revenue Judicial opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.11.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Justice judgment on the legality and the legality of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.11.6.
3.11.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.11.8.
The new accountant of the Agency took office on 1 December 2017.
The transfer process was not carried out in accordance with the requirements of Article 55 of the Rules of Application.
In particular, no transfer report has been sent to the new invoicing officer. COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.11.9. The agency publishes job vacancies on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.11.10.
EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORT 3.11.11.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance was carried out on behalf of the Commission in the period 2013-2016 (106).
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.11.12. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(106) The farm did not carry out this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/81 (1) According to ENISA, the number of employees was reduced to 11 employees at the end of 2017. Year 2015 2016 Year of correction decision (completed/completed/completed/n.e.) In progress n. z. 2016 n. z. DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations In 2016 the Agency plans to transfer the administrative staff from Heraklion to Athens.
The rate of committed appropriations carried over to the following financial year is high for Title II (administrative expenditure) with EUR 0.3 million and 25% (2015: EUR 0.15 million and 22%).
This high rate is mainly due to transfers of funds to Title I (staff expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) and is mainly linked to IT investments and the purchase of a service car shortly before the end of the year.
As provided for in the Agency's financial rules, external evaluations of the Agency's performance for 2014 and 2015 were carried out, and the final reports were presented in October 2015 and May 2016 respectively.
The 2014 evaluation concluded that the operational core competences implemented under the 2014 work programme are clearly related to the Agency's legal mandate and that the Agency's effectiveness has been well evaluated.
However, it was noted that there was a need to improve the division of the agency between Heraklion and Athens, which resulted in too heavy work, and a lack of communication and cooperation.
The 2015 evaluation concluded that the Agency's activities and outputs meet the needs for network and information security across the EU and across Member States and that the Agency effectively fulfils the expectations of its stakeholders.
However, the report stressed the need to improve communication between the Agency and its stakeholders, and the Agency's mandate and scope are too limited.
The Agency is implementing an action plan which it has subsequently agreed with the Management Board.
In 2016, the Agency moved eight more employees to Athens, reducing the number of employees in Heraklion to 14 (1).
As the Court pointed out in its 2013 report, costs could probably be further reduced by pooling the entire staff at one location.
EN C 434/82 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.11.8.
Although the transfer to the new accountant was never formalized, informal meetings with the former current accountant took place for the transfer of knowledge.
The new accountant also received an updated training on SAP to ensure a good understanding of the accounting system.
Nevertheless, ENISA will take corrective measures to ensure an adequate transfer between outgoing and new staff.
3.11.9.
All vacancies published by the EPSO must be translated into all official EU languages.
In view of its limited budget, ENISA is unfortunately unable to bear these costs.
However, the Agency is using traditional and social media, and has committed to the creation of an agency-wide portal to reduce the risks associated with the publication of job vacancies, as many of the decentralised organisations face the same problem.
ENISA has not carried out a formal operational and financial impact assessment of Brexit, as it does not have a significant direct impact on ENISA's budget, operation and administration.
Nevertheless, internal procedures, such as procurement and recruitment, were revised in the context of Brexit.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/83 3.12.
EUROPEAN UNION IRON AGENCY (ERA) INTRODUCTION 3.12.1.
The Railway Agency of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Lille and Valenciennes, was established by Regulation (EC) No 881/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, as replaced by Regulation (EU) 2016/796 of the European Parliament and of the Council (107).
The Agency's task is to improve the interoperability of rail systems and to develop a common approach to safety to help create a more competitive European rail sector with a high level of safety.
3.12.2.
The table below gives the main figures for the Agency (108).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 31 Total staff on 31 December (1) 164 (1) Personnel includes officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE CLAIM TO RELIABILITY OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE CLAIMS OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENT CLAIMS IN 2016 28 155 OF THE COURT'S JUDGMENT 3.12.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts (109) and the accounts (110) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and legality of the accounts of the Agency's financial statements under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's annual and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows as well as the changes in the net amount for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all the essentials of the sector at large.
(107) OJ L 283, 28.9.1993; Bull.
3, and OJ L 364, 18.12.2008, p. 18, and OJ L 347, 20.12.2008, p. 3.
1. In accordance with the latter Regulation, the original designation of the European Railway Agency has been replaced by the designation of the European Union Railway Agency by the designation of the European Union Railway Agency.
(108) For more information on the Agency's facilities and activities, please visit its website www.era.europa.eu.
(109) The annual financial statements include the financial statements, the financial statements, the cash flow statement, the net change table, and a summary of the financial statements and other disclosures.
(110) The budget implementation reports include the reports summarising all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/84 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue and revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.12.5.
Payments Judgment of the jurisdiction and order of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.12.6.
3.12.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.12.8.
In December 2016, the Agency's Invoicing Officer was appointed interim manager of the Financial and Procurement Division in addition to this function.
As part of this additional function, it is responsible for the management of staff, which is responsible for the introduction and management of commitments and payments.
The Agency's financial rules stipulate that these financial operators are under the authority of the authorising officer.
However, according to the principle of separation of tasks, powers of instruction and auditing are separate functions, and mutually exclusive.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency) with a contractor on the acquisition of IT hardware and software and maintenance and support services (IT services).
In case of a payment of around 47,000 euros, the agency had acquired IT services via the contractor, without any competitive process or prior market analysis. In 2017, the contractor had paid a total of 1.1 million euros.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.12.10.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the Agency's human resources and competence management(111).
The Agency drew up an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
The annex contains a overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years. (111) The Court has not taken on board the corrective measures on the basis of the Court's observations.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/85 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Statements by the Court The Agency's headquarters are in Lille and Valenciennes.
As stated by the Court in its special annual report for the financial year 2006, costs could probably be reduced by pooling all the activities in one location.
This could also facilitate the conclusion of a comprehensive siting agreement with the Member State where the Agency is based; the conditions under which the Agency and its staff would thus work would be clarified.
Year 2013 Progress of corrective action (completed/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress (not under the control of the Agency)
EN C 434/86 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWER OF THE AGENCY 3.12.8.
The Agency is currently being restructured from the ground up in order to take account of its new tasks.
In accordance with the plan of action agreed with the Internal Audit Service, appropriate separation of tasks for the accountant is to be established.
3.12.9.
As the Court noted, the contract was used in accordance with the contractual provisions of the DIGIT framework contract DI07360.
All other considerations relating to economic budget management are to be notified to the contract manager, i.e. DG DIGIT.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/87 3.13.
EUROPEAN SECURITIES AND MARKET SURVEY INTRODUCTION 3.13.1.
The European Securities and Markets Authority (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority", also known as "ESMA"), was established in Paris by Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (112). 3.13.2.
The objective of the objective is to improve the functioning of the EU internal financial market by ensuring a high, effective and high level of regulation and supervision, by ensuring the integrity and stability of financial systems, and by strengthening international supervisory coordination to ensure the stability and effectiveness of the financial system.
3.13.3.
The table contains the most important figures for the survey (113).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 42 total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 226 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
(a) the annual accounts of the accounts of the financial statements (114) and the financial statements (115) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and legality of the accounts of the accounts of the European Union (TFEU) pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84.
(113) Further information about the conditions and conditions of the operation can be found on their website www.esma.europa.eu.
(114) The annual financial statements include annual financial statements, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of net changes, and a summary of the annual financial statements and other financial statements.
(115) The reports on budget implementation include the reports which summarise all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/88 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal validity and regularity of the revenue and expenditure underlying the annual accounts Revenue and expenditure Opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue and expenditure underlying the annual accounts 3.13.6. According to our assessment, the revenue and expenditure underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are, in all essential respects, legal and regular.
Payments Payments on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.13.7.
Note 3.13.8.
Without questioning its judgment, the Court points out that the United Kingdom notified the European Council on 29 March 2017 of its decision to withdraw from the European Union.
An agreement on the details of the withdrawal is currently being negotiated.
The budget of the funds is 27% financed by the European Union, 42% by direct contributions from the EU Member States and 29% by contributions from the supervised bodies (rating agencies and trade repositories). The remaining 2% come from other sources.
The withdrawal of the United Kingdom could have an impact on the activity of the country, since the main supervised institutions are currently based there.
3.13.9.
COMMENTS ON THE EFFECTIVENESS OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND THE SERVICES 3.13.10. The report publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not always on the website of the European Office for Personnel Selection (EPSO).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.13.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented a report on ESMA's peer review procedure in 2017 at competent national hearings (116).
The Bureau then drew up an action plan.
3.13.12.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory authorities (117) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (118).
(116) The farm did not perform these inspections.
(117) ESMA, the European Banking Authority and the European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Occupational Pensions.
(118) The Court has not carried out this evaluation work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/89 REPLY OF THE REPLY REPLY OF THE REPLY 3.13.7.
ESMA recognises the problem and will continue to follow developments in the Brexit negotiations.
EPSO has decided to publish ESMA's job advertisements on its website only when there are job advertisements in 24 languages.
In 2017, the translation costs to be borne by ESMA (fif job advertisements of 16) amounted to 32 431 euros.
ESMA considers that the costs for the translation of all job offers into 23 languages are not justified for economic budget management and has therefore decided to use other media in which the majority of EU agencies publish their job offers.
EN C 434/90 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.14.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK (EU-OSHA) INTRODUCTION 3.14.1.
The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter ‘the Agency', also ‘EU-OSHA'), based in Bilbao, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 (119).
The Agency's tasks include collecting and disseminating information on national and EU priorities in the field of safety and health at work, supporting national and EU institutions involved in policy-making and implementation and information on preventive measures.
3.14.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Agency (120).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euros) 15 Total staff on 31 December (1) 64 (1) Total staff comprises officials, temporary staff and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts. Source: Agency data provided.
RELIABILITY REQUIRED BY THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE RELIABILITY OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE INDEPENDENT PRESENTATION OF THE INDEPENDENT DEPENDENT PRESENTATION IN 2016 17 65 PRESENTATION REPRESENTATION 3.14.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (121) and the annual accounts reports (121) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the annual accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.14.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the Agency's annual and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, as well as the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally accepted accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential aspects as a whole.
(119) OJ No.
1. This Regulation was last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005 (OJ L 216, 20.8.1994, p.
(120) Further information about the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.osha.europa.eu.
(121) The financial statements include the financial statements, the financial statements, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of financial statements and other financial statements.
(122) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/91 Legality and regularity of the accounts revenue revenue Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts 3.14.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is, in all essential respects, legal and regular.
Payments Payments of the balance of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.14.6. Payments of the annual accounts of the accounts of the accounts 3.14.6. Payments of the balance of payments of the accounts of the accounts of the accounts of the accounts of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities - balance of payments of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities - 3.14.6.
3.14.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.14.8.
The head of the agency's accountant is the head of the resource and service centre.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.14.9.
The funds transferred for Title II (administrative expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) were 40% for each title or EUR 3.5 million in total, contrary to the budget principle for annuality.
There is no indication that the funds that have been transferred have been linked to the expenditure planned during the budgetary procedure.
In December 2017, for example, the Agency ordered IT equipment and B,romῬbel, amounting to EUR 220,000, for an amount of EUR 220,000.
The agencies should set out a single set of rules for electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (123) (124). The Commission is currently developing a comprehensive set of IT tools for all stages of public procurement procedures, as well as tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract announcements in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
The Agency had not introduced any of these tools by the end of 2017.
3.14.11.
Unlike most other agencies, the agency did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of Brexit's potential impact on its organisation, operations and accounting.
CONTINUE CONFIDENCE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.14.12. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(123) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(124) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (ăe-Governmente).
C 434/92 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2016 2016 Outgoing In progress EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations At EUR 417 279 or 30 % (2015: EUR 364 740 or 26 %), the level of committed appropriations from the budget year 2017 was high for Title II (administrative expenditure).
These transfers mainly concern IT services which had not yet been fully provided or invoiced at the end of the year.
The commitment appropriations under Title III for the following financial year amounted to EUR 3370616 and 43% respectively (2015: EUR 3383052 and 41%).
These transfers mainly concern research projects and studies with a duration of more than one year.
In 2014, the Agency signed a framework agreement on IT consulting for the period 2014-2017 for a total amount of 1.1 million euros.
Although a clear definition of project achievements was made in the individual contracts signed in 2016 for the implementation of the framework agreement, consultants were required on the basis of time and resources required. Here, the price is not fixed and directly linked to the performance, but is the result of the number of working days.
In addition, in 2016 around 50% of the IT consulting services were provided outside of the agency's limitations, so that the agency was only able to monitor the efficient implementation of the services only to a limited extent.
In 2016, the payments made under this framework agreement amounted to around 0.4 million euros.
The Agency's regulation on the establishment of the Agency does not explicitly require external evaluations of the Agency's activities.
The Commission's proposal for a new Commission Regulation provides for an evaluation to be carried out every five years. Year 2016 Situation of corrective action (completed/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in evaluation (not under the control of the Agency)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/93 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.14.8.
From organizational reasons the accountant is assigned in the organizational chart to the resource and service center, and he spends his time in the service of the financial personnel.
The accountant, however, is directly subordinated to the Director (not to the Head of the Resource and Service Centre) to ensure his independence.
3.14.9.
The transfer of Title III concerns mainly large-scale research projects with a duration of more than one year and is connected with the Annual Work Programme 2017.
The transfers under Title II relate primarily to services for which there is a duration of two calendar years.
As regards the amount in amount of 0.2 million euros, it should be noted that the amount of funds for Title II since 2014 and the Agency's move to new circumstances, which led to savings of 0.6 million euros per year, has been reduced to 1.4 million euros.
In 2017, the appropriations for Title II were further reduced by EUR 60 000 by means of an amending budget adopted in June, in line with an increase in the contribution of local authorities to the EU-OSHA infrastructure budget.
The majority of the relevant IT procurements were planned for 2018 (and documented as such in the 2017 draft budget and in other budget planning phases), but the necessary commitments (100 000 euros) were finally made in 2017 as a means of execution.
As of the 2019 budget, a list of possible additional IT procurements will be included in the programming document, provided, for example, that, due to regular renegotiation of prices, funds are available.
The transfer between the titles (as provided for in the Framework Financial Regulation) was notified to the Board of Directors, the Parliament and the Council.
3.14.10.
Since the end of 2016, the Agency has made electronic access via its website to all the procedures initiated (ex-ante announcements of low- or medium-value announcements and order announcements), and in addition special e-mail addresses for the award of public addresses are provided.
2018 (target: October) the agency will introduce the tool for the electronic tender for the electronic tender for the period of the announcement and processing of information requests until the submission of offers.
The Agency has now carried out an analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, its operations and its accounting operations.
EN C 434/94 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.15.
EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR IMPROVING LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS (EUROFOUND) INTRODUCTION 3.15.1.
The European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (hereinafter referred to as the Foundation), based in Dublin, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (125).
The Foundation has the task of contributing to the design and creation of better living and working conditions in the Union through the development and dissemination of relevant knowledge.
3.15.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Foundation (126).
Table Key figures for the 2017 Foundation Budget (million Euro) 20 Total staff on 31 December (1) 100 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Foundation.
RELIABILITY DECLARATION OF THE COURT OF COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT IN 2016 21 104 DECLARATION 3.15.3.
(a) the annual accounts of the Foundation, consisting of the annual accounts (127) and the financial implementation reports (128) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.15.4. According to our assessment, the Foundation's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 are the Foundation's annual and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its financial statements and cash flows as well as the changes of the net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects and in all essential respects.
OJ L 139, 30.5.1975, p. 1.
(126) Further information on the Foundation's facilities and activities can be found on the Foundation's website www.eurofound.europa.eu.
(127) The annual financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in the net assets and a summary of the financial statements and other statements.
(128) The budget implementation reports include the reports summarising all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/95 Legality and order of the revenue of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union and the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union and the European Union of the European Union of the European Union and the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union and of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, European Union of the European Union and the European Union of the European Union, the European Union and of the European Union of the European Union and the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, European Union of the European Union of the European Union and the European Union of the European Union of the European Union, the European Union of the European Union and the European Union of the European Union of the European Union and the European Union and the European Union, the European Union of the European Union and the European Union, European Union and the European Union of the European Union and the European Union and the European Union and of the European Union and the European Union and the European Union and the European Union of the European Union and the European Union and the European Union and the European Union and the European Union and the European Union, and the European Union and the European Union of the European Union, European Union of the European Union of the European Union, European Union
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.15.6.
3.15.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.15.8.
In the course of the current review of EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the hierarchical position and the independence of its auditors.
The Foundation is the head of the Administration and Finance Department and the head of the head of the accounting officer.
As part of its framework financial regulation, the agencies should set a uniform framework for electronic storage and the electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (129) (130). As a requirement for the EU institutions also applies, the Commission is in the process of developing a comprehensive IT set-up, covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of procurement notices documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
According to the Commission, the Foundation had initiated electronic invoicing and the electronic invitation to tender for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not the electronic submission of tenders.
SECOND SEGREGATION OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.15.10. The annex provides an overview of the corrective measures taken following the Court's observations of previous years.
(129) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration.
(130) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
C 434/96 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years Statements of the Court In its report on the annual accounts of 2014, the Court pointed out that employees were too low for the period 2005-2014, which related to the transition to the new EU Staff Regulations in 2005.
While the conditions for non-compliance with the guaranteed minimum requirements are different for the low-impact conditions (2014: non-compliance with the guaranteed minimum requirements; 2015: the application of a false multiplication factor to the handicapped), the Court once again found too low (43350 euros) and a few non-performing requirements (168930 euros), which concerned 30 employees in the active and earlier jobs.
Eurofound has corrected all too low distances, but will not demand the increased distances (in accordance with Article 85 of the current Staff Regulations).
The Foundation should re-examine the errors in the 2005 transition to the Staff Regulations and undertake a comprehensive evaluation of its payroll.
In its December 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the need for the Foundation to improve its project management, in particular in terms of governance, monitoring and reporting.
The Foundation and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
At 2.8 million euros or 43% (2015: 2.1 million euros or 31%), the rate of the committed appropriations transferred to the year 2016 rose to Title III (operational expenditure), which was mainly due to year-long projects (studies and pilot projects).
The Foundation may use separate budgets to better accommodate the multi-annual nature of the activities as well as inevitable disincentives to contract signatures, deliveries, and payments.
The Foundation's Foundation's advisory decree does not explicitly require external evaluations of its activities.
The Commission's proposal for a new regulation on the regulation provides for an evaluation to be carried out every five years.
Year 2016 2016 2016 2016 Balance of correction approval (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/97 REPLY OF THE FOUNDATION 3.15.8.
The Board of Directors is satisfied with the current independence of the current auditor, in particular with regard to his existing power to report directly to the Chair in accordance with Article 6.1 of the Charter of the Auditor, and with regard to the participation of the Board of Directors in the appointment process.
However, a new regulation currently under discussion between the institutions is likely to assign the role of the employment authority to the Board of Directors rather than to the Director.
This allows Eurofound to reassess the question of the greater independence of the accountant in the future.
3.15.9.
However, two pilot agencies have had serious problems with the software.
In addition, the software for electronic procurement is currently available only for open tenders (but not for negotiated tenders), of which Eurofound only has very few per year.
Eurofound will therefore continue to follow developments and is ready to invest in electronic procurement once it is satisfied with its stability and functionality.
EN C 434/98 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.16.
AGENCY FOR THE EUROPEAN GNSS (GLOBALS SATELLITE NAVIGATION SYSTEM) (GSA) INTRODUCTION 3.16.1.
The Agency for the European GNSS (the Global Satellite Navigation System) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), whose seat was moved from Brussels to Prague on 1 September 2012, was created by Regulation (EU) No 912/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (132) repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 (133) on the management bodies of the European satellite navigation programmes and amending Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council(134).
The European GNSS Authority, set up under Council Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004, officially took over on 1 January 2007 all the tasks previously entrusted to the Galileo Joint Undertaking, the Agency continuing to carry out the tasks as the Agency for the European GNSS on the basis of Regulation (EU) No 912/2010, as amended.
The Commission also commissioned the Agency to operate the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay System (EGNOS) by way of a transfer agreement.
3.16.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (135).
Table Main figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) (1) Total staff at 31 December (3) 2017 704 (2) 166 2016 626 160 (1) The figures for the budget are based on the appropriations for payments.
(2) The Agency received EUR 676 million by means of transfer agreements with the Commission.
3. Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts consist of the annual accounts (136) and the annual accounts reports of the budget implementation (137) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts of the European Union (TFEU) in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
(131) Decision 2010/803/EU of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, by mutual agreement (OJ L 347, 31.12.2010, p.
OJ L 266, 20.10.2010, p. 11.
OJ L 246, 20.7.2004, p. 1.
OJ L 196, 24.7.2008, p. 1.
(135) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.gsa.europa.eu.
(136) The financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statements, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the underlying financial statements and other statements.
(137) The reports on budget implementation include the reports which summarize all revenue and expenditure estimates, and explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/99 Accumulation of the accounts Jurisdiction of the accounts Jurisdiction of the accounts Jurisdiction of the accounts Jurisdiction of the accounts Jurisdiction of the accounts Jurisdiction of the European Union C 434/99 3.16.4.
Payments Payments on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.16.6.
Emphasis on a case 3.16.7.
On 15 December 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement of EUR 1.5 billion on the operation of the Galileo satellite system during the period 2017-2027.
The agreement was awarded following a public procurement procedure.
One of the tenderers involved brought proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union against the Agency to challenge the outcome of the award procedure.
The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union will determine the legality and regularity of the procurement procedure for the framework agreement and for all associated individual contracts and future payments.
The Agency has reported the facts in its 2017 annual accounts and has reported and reported that in 2017 49 million euros (7% of the 2017 budget, including the amounts received through the transfer agreements) were paid out in connection with the framework agreement.
Note 3.16.8.
The negotiations on an agreement on the details of the withdrawal are currently under way.
The Agency operates both the Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) and Galileo ground stations in the United Kingdom.
In the annual accounts, the Agency refers to the Commission's decision, adopted on 24 January 2018, to move the second location of the Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) from the United Kingdom to Spain in the chapter on events following the closing date.
3.16.9.
OBSERVATIONS ON RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.16.10.
The Agency's headquarters were relocated and its mission was redefined in 2013.
The Agency revised its financial rules in 2014 and delegated its accounting function in 2015 to the Commission's invoicing officer.
Although these events resulted in significant changes in the Agency's procedures, the accounting system has not been validated again since 2012 (138).
(138) See also the 2015 follow-up note.
EN C 434/100 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 COMMENTS ON the ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETS AND SERVICES 3.16.11. The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Agency for the Selection of Personnel (EPSO).
3.16.12.
The agencies should set up a common framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (139) (140). As a requirement also applies for EU institutions, the Commission is in the process of developing an IT overview covering all phases of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic call for tenders in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
The Agency did not use any of these tools at the end of 2017.
EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORT 3.16.13.
In 2017, a mid-term evaluation of the Galileo (141) and EGNOS programmes and the Agency's performance in the period 2014-2016 was carried out on behalf of the Commission (142).
CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.16.14. The appendix contains an overview of the corrective measures taken by the Court on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years.
(139) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(140) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(141) Galileo is the Global Satellite Navigation System (GNSS) of the European Union.
(142) The Court did not interpret this evaluation work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/101 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court's comments Court's comments Property, plant and equipment (net book value: EUR 1.0 million) are not insured.
The accounting systems were last validated in 2012.
The promised validation of the systems has not taken place due to the expected major changes in procedures and in the flow of information after the relocation of the Agency.
The new invoicer plans the next validation for the year 2020.
The Agency has established Emergency Continuity Plans for the security sites in France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.
However, there is no contingency plan for the headquarters in Prague and the agency in its entirety.
The Agency's annual work plan for 2015 was only adopted in March 2015, and the adoption of its multiannual work programme for 2014-2020 is still pending.
The late adoption of central planning documents involves risks for the achievement of the Agency's objectives.
In 2015, the agency had a high staff turnover with 14 outgoing and 26 new employees.
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that no agency-wide annual risk assessment was carried out in 2016 and that the significant risks for the Agency are not recognised in its planning documents or in its annual reports.
In addition, the IAS noted that the terminology used for the various elements of the performance measurement system is not uniform, which makes performance monitoring more difficult.
The Agency and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures. At 2.8 million euros and 46% respectively (2015: 2.5 million euros and 42%), the rate of the committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) for the following financial year was high.
EN C 434/102 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.16.10.
The GSA agrees with the Court's comment.
In 2015, the GSA outsourced its accounts to the European Commission, so that the Commission's accounting officer (within the DG Budget) provides all services, including the validation of local systems, that are required under Article 50 of the framework financial regulation applicable to the agencies.
The validation approach is currently being implemented and planned within DG Budget services.
3.16.11.
The publication of job advertisements on the EPSO platform requires translation into all EU official languages, whereas English is the only working language of the Agency and the publication of vacancies in English is considered the most appropriate pre-selection step to ensure that our working language is first understood.
Furthermore, the translation of job offers into all EU official languages would mean an additional financial and time time of the agency, so that it would not be useful for the above reasons. Instead, the GSA intends to publish all job offers on the agency's portal, which the agencies consider to be equivalent to the EPSO and offers the EU citizens a sufficient amount of transparency.
In addition, the agency also publishes its job advertisements on specialized space websites.
Electronic communications in TED (presented by the Office for Publications) for the publication of contract notices, award notices, notices of corrections, notices of amendments, etc. are currently being used in the GSA whenever this is indicated in accordance with Article 264 of the provisions of the application.
The Agency also intends to use the e-Tendering system TED to create and publish tenders.
Against this background, the GSA is currently coordinating with the Office for Publications to register and create a system account.
With regard to high-value tenders (above the thresholds set out in Article 118(1) HO), the GSA is currently undertaking the necessary administrative steps to use the ăe Submission module in the information system ăe-PRIOR (provided by DG DIGIT) developed by the European Commission to ensure that the electronic system set up for the submission of all tenders meets all the requirements of the HO and AB.
It is pointed out that the module ăe-Submission is currently supported exclusively by open procedures and the GSA is therefore allowed to use it for such procedures only.
In this context, the GSA has already held an initial coordination meeting with DG DIGIT and is in the process of concluding and signing an agreement with it with a view to establishing the framework for ăe submission and starting to implement it.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/103 Agencies funded under the MFF sub-heading 2  of the Official Journal of the European Union C 434/103 Agencies funded under the MFF sub-heading 2 of the Official Journal of the European Union C 434/103 Sustainable growth: natural resources 3.17.
EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENTAL AGENCY (EEA) INTRODUCTION 3.17.1.
The European Environment Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Copenhagen, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90(143).
The Agency's mission is to set up an environmental monitoring network to provide the Commission, Parliament, the Member States and, more generally, public information on the state of the environment.
3.17.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (144).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euros) 70 Total staff as at 31 December (1) 212 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff as well as seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Agency, the figures given include both the core budget and other resources.
DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE INDEPENDENT CONCLUSION PRESENTED TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND TO THE COUNCIL IN 2016 OF 50.5 208 PRESENTATION CONCLUSION 3.17.3.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (145) and the budget implementation reports (146) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the reports underlying this annual accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.17.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the Agency's annual and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of the Agency's annual accounts and cash flows as well as the changes in the net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally accepted accounting grounds for the public sector, in all of the essentials.
OJ L 120, 11.5.1990, p. 1.
(144) Further information on the Agency's responsibilities and activities can be found on its website www.eea.europa.eu.
(145) The annual financial statements include the financial statements, the financial statements, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, as well as a summary of the financial statements and other financial statements.
(146) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews, which summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/104 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Legal jurisdiction and order of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.17.5. According to our assessment the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are legal and orderly in all essential respects.
Payments Payments in respect of the legality and legality of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.17.6. Payments in respect of the accounts in respect of payments in respect of the accounts and the accounts in respect of the accounts in respect of the accounts in respect of payments in respect of the accounts in respect of the accounts in respect of the accounts in respect of the accounts in respect of the accounts in respect of the accounts
3.17.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.17.8.
In the course of this year's audit of the EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting, including the hierarchical position and the independence of its auditors.
The head of the Agency's accountant is the head of the administrative services.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMIC PROTECTION OF BUDGETARY FOOD AND SERVICES 3.17.9. The EEA noted that one of the European Topic Centres (ETZs) implemented the action plan for 2016 with significant forgeries.
The Commission therefore did not accept some of the findings and rejected part of the costs claimed by the ETZ.
The correction of the amount of the final payment also shows that the financial and performance controls have been further improved in respect of the grants granted to the ETZ.
3.17.10.
Several proposals were found in several award procedures.
The Agency used several specifications for tenders, which did not include minimum economic and financial performance requirements for the selection criteria.
These criteria are not therefore the basis for determining whether a bidder fulfils the necessary conditions for the implementation of the contract, contrary to its objective.
3.17.11.
The price competition was based on the special profiles offered for some tenders with high value and not on the expected time required for the completion of the tasks.
Framework agreements were concluded with only one tenderer, although a renewed call for competition between different tenderers for better results with regard to individual contracts would be required.
3.17.12.
In accordance with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a common framework for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (147) (148). Given that a corresponding framework also applies for the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT programme that covers all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
3.17.13.
In particular, the decisions taken in the minutes of the selection committee were not sufficiently detailed.
The criteria used in the various stages of the selection process and the role of each of the members of the selection committee must be specified in more detail in order to improve the transparency and equal treatment of applicants.
(147) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe)
(148) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic administration (ăe)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/105 3.17.14.
The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity, which would enable the citizens of the European Union to consult job advertisements issued by the various European institutions and agencies. The main reason the Agency has to offer is the high translation costs for EPSO publications for which translation has to be made into all the official languages of the EU.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.17.15.
In order to implement the Copernicus transfer agreement concluded with the Commission, the Agency entered into several legal commitments entered into with Copernicus before receiving the Commission's pre-financing.
Although an exceptional report was signed by the Agency's Director for these commitments, this approach is an infringement of the provisions of the Financial Regulation.
THE CONTINUATION OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.17.16. The annex provides an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
C 434/106 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations In 2016, the Agency updated its security concept, but many of its other internal procedures are outdated.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) carried out the procedures for preparing the 2015 State of the Environment (SOER) report on the state of the environment.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency) with a contractor on the acquisition of software and licenses, and related IT maintenance and advisory services.
In 2016, the Agency used this framework contract to purchase software licenses worth a total of 442 754 euros.
The largest order concerned the renewal of software licenses provided by an exclusive Scandinavian buyer (112 248 Euro).
In this case, the use of the framework agreement, which led to negative breakdowns, was not justified. Year 2016 2016 State of the acceptance of the correction (completed/ ongoing/ ongoing/ n.e.c.) Completed n.e. 2016 In progress n.e.c.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/107 REPLY OF THE AGENCY REPRESENTATIONS ON THE AGENCY REPRESENTATIONS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNT 3.17.8. The Agency has commented on the Court's observations with the invoices and is convinced that the functional independence has been ensured by the fact that the invoice is a staff member of a high grade (AD 12) and has direct access to the Management Board.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY SUPPLEMENTARY SUPPORT AND SERVICES 3.17.9.
The Agency welcomes the fact that the Court wishes to further improve its management of the ETZ in terms of both financial and operational controls.
In order to address a repeat of the problem encountered in 2017 at the ETZ of inland, inland, coastal and marine waters, the task in question was removed from the annual action plan and transferred to the Agency.
The Agency seeks to maintain the current level of control of grants granted to the ETZ.
The Agency confirmed that it has amended the requirements relating to the financial performance of bidders during 2017 and that the bidders are now required to provide information on financial indicators (liquidity, solvency, and profitability), and that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 147(1)(a) of the provisions on application (AB), a minimum turnover of at least twice the value of the required annual contract value is now required.
The Agency would like to stress once again that the decision to offer framework contracts to individual contractors has been taken consciously and taking into account the fact that competition is limited to the relevant markets, as well as the nature and complexity of the services to be provided.
When awarding individual contracts on the basis of the framework contracts, the Agency considers not only the contractually agreed days, but also the number of days required, on the basis of the execution of the tasks, to calculate a value for the budget of the budget required for a specific individual contract.
Only then will negotiations begin with the contractor on the details of his offer with the aim of achieving the best price-performance ratio.
In the event of a reopening of the call, the Agency shall have no control over any further negotiations on the bids of the bidders.
In accordance with the decision of the Board of Directors of 9 November 2015 to introduce an electronic Invoicing to the EEA for the electronic processing of the procurement procedures, the Agency, in the course of 2014, introduced electronic invoicing for certain procedures, and is now in the process of extending the application of this module to all its procedures, while the electronic call for tender has been in force since 1 January 2015 for all general calls for tender.
The integration of the electronic submission of tenders started in early December 2017 and the first call for tenders in which this module was used was launched on 18 June 2018 (EEA/COM/18/002   was the provision of publishing services for the EEA).
The Agency takes note of the Court's note and of the fact that it currently adapts its selection and recruitment procedures in the following points: a) The completion of the individual steps in the various phases (pre-selection, selection, interview and written examination) is, in addition, confirmed in the relevant documents with the time (not only with the date). b) The specified questions for the interview and the written examination are systematically, in the phase of the pre-selection, a written, expected answers. c) In order to improve the reporting, an electronic (paperless) procedure is introduced.
3.17.14.
EPSO has rejected a publication for the agency with the grounds that the precondition that all job offers are to be translated into all the official languages is not fulfilled.
However, the Agency does not, either, have the resources or the resources to respond to the request made by the EPSO.
In this case, not only all job offers should be translated, but the applications should also be processed in all official languages, which entails unsustainable additional costs.
Like most other EU agencies, the Agency has, therefore, sought an alternative to the EPSO website and, since May 2018, has been using a website for the same purpose, the Agency and the EU agencies' network of agencies to set up and maintain the Job Advertisement Board.
Additionally, the agency uses LinkedIn, its own website and its own Facebook pages to ensure the best possible distribution.
EN C 434/108 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.17.15.
Before concluding the transfer agreement for Copernicus with DG GROW, the Agency has subsequently indicated that the conditions for pre-financing are not compatible with the Financial Regulation (Article 7 AR of the Financial Regulation 2014).
First of all, DG GROW was, in its reply, intelligible; DG BUDG, which is responsible for drawing up the standard template, however, refused to change the transfer agreement.
After the implementation of the transfer agreement began, the Agency continued to point to the problems and stated that it was, as a rule, forced to apply derogations in order to continue its operational activity; this prompted DG GROW to modify the pre-financing conditions of the transfer agreement in August 2017 and to apply additional pre-financing in November 2017.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/109 3.18.
EUROPEAN FISHERIES AGENCY (EFCA) INTRODUCTION 3.18.1.
The European Fisheries Control Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Vigo (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 768/2005(149).
3.18.2.
The table shows the main figures for the Agency (150).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 17 Total staff on 31 December (2) 72 (1) The figures for the budget are based on the funds for payments. (2) Staff include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
OPINION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE COURT OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT OPINION OF THE INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT CONCLUSION IN 2016 10 64 JUDGMENT OF PRESENTATION 3.18.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts shall consist of the annual accounts (151) and the financial implementation reports (152) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the annual accounts underlying the accounts referred to in Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 128, 21.5.2005, p. 1.
(150) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.efca.europa.eu.
(151) The financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statements, the table of changes in the net assets, as well as a summary of financial statements and other results.
(152) The reports on budget implementation include the implementation of the reports summarising all revenue and expenditure forecasts, and explanations.
EN C 434/110 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Legal status and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.18.5. In our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.18.6.
3.18.7.
Internal Audit Service reports and external evaluation reports 3.18.8.
In November 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented the Agency with a report on the monitoring and management of projects and the monitoring of projects (153).
The Agency and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective actions.
3.18.9.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency was carried out on behalf of the Management Board (154).
The Agency developed a plan to implement the recommendations.
(153) The court did not have these work of preparation.
(154) The Court has not carried out this evaluation work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/111 AGENCY REPLY The Agency takes note of the Court's report.
EN C 434/112 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies funded under the MFR sub-heading 3  Union security and security 3.19.
The European Union Agency for the Development of Law Enforcement (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also referred to as the European Union Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), is established in Budapest by Regulation (EU) 2015/2219 of the European Parliament and of the Council (155), repealing and replacing Council Decision 2005/681/JHA (156).
3.19.2.
The following table shows the main figures for the Agency (157).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 9 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 53 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE DECLARED BY THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE CONCLUSION OF THE COUNCIL IN 2016 10 51 PRESENTATION JUDGMENT 3.19.3.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (158) and the accounts of the implementation of the budget (159) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the financial statements underlying the accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In our opinion, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows as well as the changes of the net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all of the essentials and in all of the essentials of the financial sector.
Regulation (EU) 2015/2219 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the Agency of the European Union for the training of law enforcement (EPA) and on the replacement and repeal of Council Decision 2005/681/JHA (OJ L 253, 25.11.2015, p.
OJ L 256, 1.10.2005, p. 63.
(157) Further information about the Agency's Agency's facilities and facilities can be found on its website www.cepol.europa.eu.
(158) The annual financial statements comprise the overview of financial results, the statement of cash flows, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the assets and other financial statements.
(159) The budget implementation reports include the reviews summarising all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/113 Legal jurisdiction and regularity of the revenue of the annual accounts Revenue Jurisdiction of the jurisdiction and regularity of the revenue of the annual accounts 3.19.5. According to our assessment, the revenue of the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.19.6.
3.19.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.19.8.
The Agency delegated its accounting function to the Commission's accounting officer in 2014.
In addition, the Agency's headquarters was relocated in 2014 and in 2016 the Agency's mission was redefined.
Although these events resulted in changes in the procedures of the Agency, the accounting system has not been validated again since 2013.
In December 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement with an economic operator with a value of 1.6 million euros and a term of four years with a view to providing temporary jobs.
The only competition criterion in the procurement procedure was the price.
A framework agreement with several companies selected on the basis of price and quality criteria has been better in terms of the timely provision of quality services.
3.19.10.
On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit).
3.19.11.
The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Agency for the Selection of Personnel (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity and enable the European institutions and agencies to consult the job advertisements of the various European institutions and agencies.
3.19.12.
In its Framework Financial Regulation, the agencies should establish a single arrangement for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (160) (161). As for the EU institutions, the Commission is in the process of developing a comprehensive electronic information exchange with third parties involved in procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.19.13.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a review report on the needs assessment, planning and budgeting of training measures at the Agency (162).
The Agency drew up an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is potential need for improvement.
(160) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(161) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe)
(162) The Court did not carry out the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS).
C 434/114 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up of comments from previous years Court observations The rate of EUR 140 055 and 30 % (2015: EUR 212 456 and 49 %) of the appropriations committed for Title II for the following financial year (expenditures for supporting activities) was high.
Personnel turnover is high, which could affect the maintenance of the Agency's business and the ability to perform the activities provided for in its work programme.
Between 2013 and 2016, the number of employees from the host country increased from one to 16, representing 31% of the total number of employees in 2016.
The reduced number of applications from other Member States may be reduced by the correction coefficient of 69% for the host Member State in terms of salary costs and by competition with another EU institution, which is also located in Budapest.
Year 2016 2016 Revision acceptance (completed/in progress/outstanding/ n.e.c.) n.e.c. (in progress) n.e.c.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/115 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.19.8.
CEPOL agrees with the Court's comment.
In 2014, CEPOL transferred its accounts to the European Commission, so that the Commission's accounts officer (within the DG Budget) provides all the services, including the validation of local systems, that are required under Article 50 of the framework financial regulation applicable to the agencies.
The validation approach is currently being developed and planned within DG Budget services.
3.19.9.
The Agency has taken note of the Court's observations but does not share its opinion.
The quality criteria were included in the technical specifications and the bidders who failed to meet the criteria were excluded.
The decision to award a single framework contract is based on previous experiences and specificities of the national labour market.
The Agency has taken note of the Court's observations.
The Brexit was discussed in meetings of the leadership bodies; the discussions in the NAPO (agency-augmentation network of procurement officers) and the IALN (agency-augmentation legal network) and the communications sent by the Commission were closely followed.
The risks for CEPOL have been assessed as low but not officially documented.
The estimated costs for the translation of job advertisements into all EU official languages, as required for publication on the EPSO website, are considered too high, given the expected benefits.
From 2018, CEPOL will also publish all job vacancies on the agency's in-depth job market, which was developed by the network of EU agencies.
The Agency has taken note of the Court's comments and has confirmed that progress is being made in the implementation of the electronic submission of tenders in cooperation with DG DIGIT.
3.19.13.
The Agency confirmed that progress had been made in implementing the Action Plan, with two out of four recommendations assessed as being implemented by the Internal Audit Service.
EN C 434/116 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.
EUROPEAN SUPPORT FOR ASYLUM (EASO) INTRODUCTION 3.20.1.
The European Asylum Support Office (hereinafter referred to as the European Asylum Support Office (hereinafter referred to as the European Asylum Support Office (hereinafter referred to as the European Asylum Support Office (hereinafter referred to as the European Asylum Support Office (hereinafter referred to as the European Asylum Support Office))) was set up in Valletta by Regulation (EU) No 439/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (163) in order to promote practical cooperation in the field of asylum and to support the Member States in fulfilling their European and international obligations to protect vulnerable people.
Since 2015, the Bむro has supported Greece and Italy in the context of the migration crisis.
3.20.2.
Table 1 contains the most important figures for the Bəro (164).
Table 1 Key figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 79 total staff on 31 December (2) 200 (1) The budget figures are based on the appropriations for payments.
(2) Staff shall comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Office, the European Parliament and the Council, and the Council shall:
We have a) presented the annual accounts of the financial year (165) and of the annual accounts (166) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and the regularity of the annual accounts of the European Union (TFEU) pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the company for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the company's financial situation as of 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and its cash flows as well as the changes to the net assets for the year ending 31 December 2017 in agreement with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all of the essential matters as a whole.
Commission Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of 19 December 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 182/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2008 as regards the application of Regulation (EC) No 182/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 182/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 182/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2008 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Regulation (EC) No 196/2008 of the Council and of the Council as regards the application of Regulation (EC) No 182/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council and of the Council as regards the application of Regulation (EC) No 182/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the Commission for the application of Regulation (EC) No 186/2009 (OJ) No 223/2008) No 182/2009 and the Council
(164) Further information on the B転ros's responsibilities and responsibilities can be found on its website www.easo.europa.eu.
(165) The financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the statement of cash flows, the table of changes in net assets, as well as a summary of the accounting grounds and other statements.
(166) The budget implementation reports include all revenue and expenditure estimates and expenditure estimates.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/117 Legal status and regularity of the regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Legal status and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.20.5. According to our assessment, revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Basis for the failure of the failure of the decision on the legality and legality of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.20.6.
Paragraphs 3.20.9-3.20.31 describe essential and systematic violations of the financial regulations of the country and other rules and provisions of the payments. Particularly affected were payments made in connection with the award and recruitment procedures.
The cumulative error caused by the irregular payments concerns at least EUR 7.7 million or 10.3% of the total payments made by the B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or D or B or B or B or B or B or D or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or or B or B or or B or B or or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B or B
Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.20.7.
According to our assessment, the underlying payments to the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are, due to the significance of the facts described in the ăBasis section for the failure of the ruling on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts, are in material detail in error.
Emphasis on a matter 3.20.8.
From the end of 2017, the personnel situation at the Bฎro had worsened exponentially.
At the management level, four out of ten head of unit and 18 out of 27 head of unit were not filled.
Three out of four Head of Unit posts and five out of ten Head of Division posts were not filled in the Administration Department, which means a serious challenge for the Head of the Department.
Furthermore, at the end of May 2018, 129 posts for temporary staff were filled, but 78 were still open.
Of the posts for contract staff, 71 were staffed and 13 were still open.
The B濂ro currently does not have the administrative capacity to fill so many vacancies (see Table 2).
In total, the continuation of the activities of the B会ros in the current scope of the situation is considerably affected by this situation.
EN C 434/118 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Table 2 Organigram of the Table beginning of June 2018
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/119 OBSERVATIONS ON LEGAL ACTIVITY AND ORDER 434/119 OBSERVATIONS ON PAYMENTS AND ENTERPRISE INTERNAL CONTROLS The nature of its activities results in large risks for the European Union 3.20.9.
Since 2016, the B↩ro has been faced with an unprecedented expansion of tasks and activities to provide operational and technical support to the Member States in the context of the migration crisis.
This is reflected in an increase in budget appropriations from an initial EUR 19 million in 2016 to EUR 79 million following the second budget change in 2017.
The number of contracting procedures increased from 87 in 2015 to 140 in 2017.
Payments increased by 225% from 2 578 in 2015 to 8 381 in 2017.
3.20.10.
The B塚ro is one of the few institutions of the European Union that has several locations.
In addition to its headquarters in Malta with 179 members of staff, the office administers two large-scale support actions in Greece and Italy, in which in 2017 747 experts from the Member States and associated countries, 202 cultural mediators (interpreters), 178 temporary staff and 21 staff members of the staff were involved.
3.20.11.
As the Court noted in its Special Report No. 6/2017 ăReaction of the EU to the refugee crisis: the hotspot concept, the Court of Auditors of the EU, in a high degree, averts the fact that the Member States provide sufficient resources.
The efficiency of the activities is particularly emphasised by the fact that the Member States send their experts for a very short period of time (six to eight weeks).
The extraordinary operational challenge of the migration crisis was not weakened by a sound management structure and effective internal controls 3.20.12.
When the resources of Greece and Italy were included in the 2015 budget, the Bank was confronted with the fact that the Member States were providing insufficient resources for the deployments of the funds.
It had already been difficult for the Bureau to fill the posts set out in its establishment plan.
Since 2014, the court has regularly repeated its remark that the B that has to work with a high staff turnover has to.
The Court has repeatedly stressed in its previous annual reports that this situation represents a serious risk for the achievement of the objectives set out in the annual and multiannual work programmes.
Despite repeated attempts (36 recruitment procedures and 100 new contracts in 2017), the (B), has not succeeded in recruiting and maintaining employees (see also paragraph 3.20.8).
3.20.13.
The extraordinary challenge in the operational field, caused by the migration crisis, was not weakened by a solid management structure.
The Board of Directors did not set up an internal audit post at the B株ro and the actions in Greece and Italy were not subject to an internal audit.
By the end of 2017, the Board of Directors had limited oversight of the budget.
3.20.14.
At the B获ro neither an internal legal service is established nor legal documents are systematically established internally.
The B considers most legal issues (mainly personnel and procurement issues) to be legal issues, without, in internal decisions or guidelines, be clearly defined, to which legal matters may be externally awarded, to which law firm, and under which conditions.
Although the B鮮丼ro uses at least eight different law firms, there is no comprehensive list of all the relevant lawyers, cases and expert reports.
3.20.15.
Legal services are not adequately provided at B not to ensure that they are exclusively used to defend the interests of the B to the B to the B interests and not to defend the interests of individuals.
The relevant procedures to protect against conflicts of interest are not always effective.
In general, the use of external claims restricts the possibility of settling disputes prior to the action.
3.20.16.
The facts set out in paragraphs 3.20.13-3.20.14 expose the company to the risk of financial losses and reputation losses.
These matters are currently being investigated internally by the B Bදro.
Many essential violations of rules resulting from a lack of internal controls payments for auxiliary services 3.20.17.
In 2017, €7.7 million was paid for auxiliary payments.
Since no competitive public procurement procedure had taken place, the Court found the order for auxiliary services to be unlawful in Greece, in respect of its 2016 mandate.
Nevertheless, in 2017 the Breleasero still made payments in the amount of 4.8 million euros within the framework of this illegal order.
EN C 434/120 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.18.
The award procedures for auxiliary services carried out in Malta in 2017 (volume of payments in 2017: 1.0 million euros) were inadequate in their execution (e.g. short deadlines for the submission of offers, lack of transparency for extension of the deadline), which made the competition one the most important basis for public procurement procedures.
As a result, the procedures had to be repeated several times because no tenders were received.
3.20.19.
The work was insufficiently controlled on compliance with national regulations on temporary employment, which exposed the business to significant financial and reputational risks.
In addition, there were significant weaknesses in the maintenance of proofs of working time for the helpers, and the irregularities that were detected.
Payments for staff expenditure 3.20.20.
The personnel-related payments amounted to 13.5 million euros in 2017. Four of the 14 recruitment procedures in the Court found serious deficiencies.
3.20.21.
For example, the Bᬶro did not post a vacancy to occupy the post of senior consultant, but did the post directly on the basis of a reserve list prepared for the post of head of department.
The extension of the deadline was not always justified given the number of applications received by the original deadline.
3.20.22.
Some procedures for hiring AD staff were not suitable for the notified grade.
In a procedure for filling a management post in the ăVerwaltungstung department, the vacancy procedure was more restrictive than for the same posts in other departments.
With a further procedure the examination of the suitability of the applicants was not adequately documented by the B further.
Payments for rents and related constructions 3.20.23.
The total rent for all the BBeleuchtungros at the different locations amounted to two million euros in 2017.
The Court noted that the B that had signed the lease agreement for the extension of the headquarters in Malta and several new B that had been signed in Athens, Lesbos and Chios, without having previously properly analysed the local market.
3.20.24.
In June 2017, the B被ro signed a lease on the Bםrofl on Lesbos.
It also accepted a contract with the landlord   usual without any competition  the works to adapt the rented building to the needs of the B aros.
The value of the contract (0.7 million euros during the first months of the contract) exceeded the annual value of the contract by many times.
The investment of substantial investment in rented premises is accompanied by substantial financial and operational risks.
3.20.25.
In 2018, the B열ro decided to lend a rental contract to B▁aufzubauen in Chios and related the construction and construction services related to the construction contract in Chios.
It is currently about limiting the financial exposure to risk resulting from the exposure to the contract.
Payments for travel expenses 3.20.26.
The Court held a contract for travel services worth 4 million euros against the law in 2016 for its 2016 survey.
The contract was awarded to a bidder who did not meet all the selection criteria.
On the basis of this unlawful order, the B ofo continued to make payments in 2017 in the amount of 1.5 million.
3.20.27.
In 2017, the B你ro identified significant deficiencies in the recognition of travel services, in particular the lack of evidence to demonstrate that the travel services in question were actually requested or provided.
This matter is currently being examined internally by the BḎro.
Other payments 3.20.28.
In addition, other services such as cleaning services, security services, interpreting and consulting services, which were based on public procurement procedures, were systematically based on the same rules.
The Court identified significant rules for the determination of needs of the firm, the elaboration of the specifications, the choice of the type of contract, the procedures for the award of contracts, the deadlines for the submission of tenders, the procedures for the evaluation and award of contracts (i.e. the weighting of the price criteria against the criteria for quality), the changes and changes in the quality of the contract, the execution of the contracts and the execution of the services provided.
These rules affect the basic principles of competition, transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination of bidders.
The following digits contain some examples for the above mentioned examples.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/121 3.20.29.
In 2017, the B艺ro awarded a service contract for consulting services related to the implementation of the Action Plan on the Greek islands directly.
The contract was awarded to an economic operator selected in advance, without any of the procurement procedures provided for in the Financial Regulation being applied.
The procurement procedure and all related payments (EUR 992000) were therefore unlawful.
3.20.30.
Since then, the company has repeatedly changed the original contract   cloned over 5000 euros with a law firm in 2016 and increased it to 259000 euros in 2018.
In 2017, payments of EUR 98332 in total were made to the contract, partly in the form of consultancy services, which required a competitive public procurement procedure.
The changes and payments relating to these advisory services were therefore contrary to the rules.
3.20.31.
The execution of the 2013 contract (value: 120 000 euros, raised in 2017 to 132 000 euros) to organize four to six major events in an international hotel during a four-year period of time was not in line with the original subject of the contract.
The B thero used the contract instead for about 50 smaller events.
The execution of the contract has therefore not been carried out in accordance with the law.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.20.32.
Under the terms of the agreements between the European Union and the Kingdom of Norway, the Swiss Confederation and the Principality of Liechtenstein (also referred to as associated countries) regarding their participation in the B, the associated countries are fully involved in the work of the B, and are entitled to the support of the B, as the case may be.
In 2016, the Bتro received financial support from the Commission to ensure adequate capacity building in Greece, support the implementation of the declaration of the European Union and Turkey, and significantly speed up redistribution, in order to reduce the currently high burden for Greece.
All these activities are part of the core business of the Bminded, of the support of measures of common interest.
The Bthero used the financial assistance for payments (EUR 6.4 million in 2016 and EUR 1.7 million in 2017) of commitments made in connection with these activities.
However, it did not include these items in the calculation of the contributions of the associated countries.
If these contributions were included, the associated countries would have to pay EUR 0.5 million more.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.20.33. The Annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
C 434/122 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Year 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 State of adoption of the correction (completed/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress.
A decision of the Executive Director is the decision of the Executive Director to classify participants in meetings organized by the B Stuart with a view to reimbursement in one of three categories (A, B or C).
The number of participants classified as reimbursing the category ăA钰哲 increased from 61% in 2013 to 69% in 2014.
Two of the three tenderers participating in a negotiated tender procedure for the provision of travel services on the basis of a framework service contract for the period 2016-2020 of EUR 4 million were invited to provide additional information on the same selection criteria.
The framework agreement and the 2016 payments based on it in the amount of EUR 920 561 are therefore contrary to the rules.
2016 Outgoing in 2017 (3)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/123 Court's observations A framework agreement with a duration of twelve months with a value of 3.6 million euros on relief services in connection with the resolution of the migration crisis was awarded in February 2016 directly by the European Parliament.
The framework contract was awarded to an economic operator selected in advance without any of the procurement procedures provided for in the EU Financial Regulation being applied. The procurement is therefore not in line with the relevant EU rules and the 2016 payments in line with the EU Regulation in line with the EU Regulation of 592 273 euros are contrary to the rules.
In August 2016, the B颇耐ro launched an open procedure (ff lots) for the award of a framework agreement to meet its needs for cultural mediators/interpreters in different countries. (German only) In August 2016, the company launched an open procedure (f lots) for a framework agreement to meet its needs for cultural mediators/interpreters in different countries.
The total value of the framework contract for the four lots awarded and awarded (Lose 2-5) was 60 million euros over four years.
However, this contractor fulfilled the financial requirements of the selection criteria (annual turnover of EUR 1 million) only for two of the three previous years; for the other year an undertaking was concluded with a common organization, according to which it was making to the contractor its turnover (equity loan).
At the extraordinary meeting of the European Council of 23 April 2015 and in the ten-point plan on migration adopted by the Foreign and Home Affairs Ministers on 20 April 2015, Member States were called upon to ensure the collection of fingerprints for all migrants.
This required the purchase and subsequent donation to the Greek State of 90 fingerprint scanners and 90 compatible computers (equipment) of 1.1 million euros under a grant agreement between the Commission and the B整ro.
However, there were no agents of the B the ros on the spot to fulfill this demand. Moreover, the confirmation of the Greek authorities that the equipment was delivered to the hotspots in February and early March 2016 and that the purpose of the equipment was to be delivered to the hotspots, was only received in July 2017.
Year 2016 Acceptance status (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
C 434/124 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Comments of the Court of First Instance Public contracting entities should require written explanation of the essential elements of the prices or costs if they appear to be unusually low and should give the tenderer the opportunity to comment (5).
In its October 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the lack of adequate planning of procurement procedures in respect of administrative expenditures, and the lack of lack of adequate monitoring of the procedures and of the lack of adequate monitoring of the procedures in relation to frameworks.
In 2016, the B proceeded to face various challenges in its operational environment, including not only the significant increase in its budget and the expansion of its tasks, but also the significant increase in the number of tasks, the redeployment of the invoicer's post with several interims and the introduction of a paperless workflow system.
This considerably changed and unstable situation was not cushioned by the revalidation of the accounting system or by the introduction of a system for the regular ex post processing of accounts.
In 2014, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the B theros), the Commission entered into a framework agreement with a supplier of software licenses and maintenance and support services.
In 2016, total payments of 534 900 euros were made to the contractor of the framework contract.
On behalf of the Commission, the performance of the project was assessed externally during the period 2011-2014, for which the final report was presented in December 2015.
The B们ro is currently implementing an action plan on which it has agreed with the Board of Directors in view of its extended mandate. The final implementation report was scheduled for June 2017.
Year 2016 2016 2016 Index of corrective measures (completed/completed/completed/not yet applicable) n.e.c. n.e.n.n.e.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.nn.n.n.e.n.n.n.n.nn.n.n.nnn.nn.n.n.n.n.n.nn.n.nnn.nn.n.n.n.n.n.nn.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.n.nn.n.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/125 EN Court's comments The Court acquired and constructed 65 containers of the total value of 852136 euros, which are to be used as mobile containers in the Greek and Italian hotspots.
VAT refunds for 2014 (180919 Euro) and 2015 (245 960 Euro) were outstanding at the end of 2016.
At EUR 2.5 million and 43.9% respectively, the rate of committed appropriations carried over to the following financial year was high for Title II (administrative expenditure) (compared to 2015: EUR 1 076 583 and 36.9% respectively).
The remittances relate mainly to IT infrastructure, services in the areas of translation and publication, business consulting and costs for board meetings, to which, towards the end of 2016, contracts were closed and/or only 2017 invoices issued. Year 2016 2016 State of the acceptance of corrections (complete/settlement/n. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. (in progress (10)) e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. e. p. e. e. e. e. e. e. p. p. e. e. e. e. e. e. e.
(2) The standards for internal control have been converted into internal control frameworks by the Commission.
(3) The new contract on the provision of services of the travel agency was signed in March 2018.
(4) The new contract for the provision of auxiliary services for EASO in Greece was signed in March 2018.
(5) Article 151 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 13 December 2012 on the rules for the application of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Financial Regulation for the general budget of the Union (OJ No L 335, 12.12.2012, p.
(6) In September 2017, the B揉ro designated the IAS in favour of the implementation of the recommendations as being ready for implementation of the recommendations.
(7) The accounting system was validated in May 2018.
Private economic operators are entrusted with the ex-post supervision of the company.
(8) The B村ro plans to introduce systematic controls for all offers for 135 000 euros from 1 January 2018.
To date, none of the proposals was above this threshold.
(9) The insurance companies have not submitted the tenders requested by the B theo.
(10) The B Josho applied to the Maltese tax authorities for reimbursement of the VAT for all the declarations to be made by 31 December 2017.
In 2017, VAT was recovered in the total amount of EUR 203277 (2014 and third quarter of 2016).
DE C 434/126 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE B恺ROS The B6ro thanks the Court for the very helpful report.
At the same time, the Court is grateful for the fact that the Court is waging the most difficult situation, in which the Court found itself in the period under review due to the enormous expansion of its tasks: in addition, it was tasked with supporting the Member States and contributing to the implementation of initiatives at EU level, for which the redistribution and declaration of the EU-Turkey, the increase in the budget, the exponential increase in payments and the increase in the award procedures (both in terms of number and complexity).
In addition, the B找ro has to manage a large number of sites and numerous management positions (department heads, unit heads, sector heads) are not filled.
In his answer, the Court will respond to some of the Court's observations, but, overall, it accepts the report and the observations it contains.
3.20.6. and 3.20.13.
With regard to the systematic violations of the regulations in the B効活ro, the B",ro ", under the new leadership, the B", started to initiate the necessary steps to ensure that the observance of the regulations prevails and becomes the central element of culture and in the implementation of all of its measures.
This includes objective, honest and open internal control, self-assessment.
The court now accepts the Court's finding that the surveillance structures and the internal control structures responsible by the court did not receive the attention that is required in the past in order to ensure adequate legal and orderliness. The court accepts that the control structures and internal control structures responsible by the court did not receive the attention required in order to ensure adequate legal and orderliness.
Here too, the B超ro would like to note that the structure and methods of the structure and procedures for the systematic achievement of the right and orderliness (and the corresponding pr thezise and comprehensive reporting) will be the absolute priority under the new management.
3.20.6., 3.20.8. and 3.20.12.
The Court rightly underlines the fact that the staff situation in the Court has deteriorated and is insufficient and that it is also an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal control system.
The current staff situation is one of the major challenges of the Court's observations regarding the remedying of the errors found in the Court's observations, which can largely be seen as a result of the lack of resources for structured and orderly work.
The Committee directly addresses the problem and, on the basis of a sound recruitment plan, on the basis of a need assessment, undertakes, with urgency, recruitment procedures to fill the posts and other relevant (operational and administrative) posts.
In addition, the firm make efforts in terms of employee satisfaction to solve the problem of staff turnover. Although in this context it is important to take into account that the low correction coefficient, compared to the fairly high cost of living in Malta, plays an important role in this, the firm acknowledges that efforts to improve employee satisfaction need to be made more.
Some measures such as flexible work opportunities, improved internal communication and organisation of employee events have already been introduced.
3.20.9. and 3.20.19.
The Court gives a correct description of the difficulties and the rapid increase of financial transactions and procurement procedures, expressed in absolute figures.
These figures speak clearly, but basically reflect the balances in finance and in the allocations not in an adequate manner.
These figures do not take into account other facts and measures, which, in addition, reinforce the mandatory situation in the procurement sector, such as the following two aspects:  the involvement of externally financed experts (Articles 204 and 287 of the Financial Regulations), which represent a high workload for the procurement sector.
In the coming years, further deterioration can be expected in this respect, as the medical experts must be involved in the support of tasks related to medical information related to the country of origin.
In conclusion, it is important that the European Community should be given the opportunity, as well as the Community as a whole, to be able to take the necessary steps, to take steps to take steps to achieve, to deal with, and to achieve, the objectives of the European Community as well as the objectives of a Community action programme to promote the development of the Community's policies and to promote the development of the development of the European Union and the development of a European Union.
In the Italian and Greek regions, conditions for a competitive market for the provision of services and products are not very good.
In addition, the bank is not typical as a customer as regards the order size of the economic operators in Malta, as they mostly lack the capacity to meet the requirements of the bank, the requirements of the bank, which in turn lack the size of the bank.
3.20.10.-3.20.12. and 3.20.19.
This feature is essential for the understanding of the verheltnism of the great effort for the administrative support as well as of the very complex environment when it comes to the implementation of functioning internal control structures.
It should also be noted that due to its operational capacity, its geographically widespread area of operation, and (as the Court rightly points out) the restrictions on the use of Member State experts, the company is dependent on contractors to an innumerable extent.
This is a factor that is designed to multiply the tasks associated with the award and financial sector (including decentralised financial actors), since in Greece, Italy and Cyprus, the sector in question is in question.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/127 and of hotspots in Greece and Italy are required in each case specifics (Leasingvertr:,vertr:,vertr:,vertr:, about cleaning, safety, water supply and, for example, about the provision of auxiliary and interpreting services).
In this case, too, staff have a crucial role to play, and, at the moment (in recognition of the multiplication factor due to its role as a multi-site agency) the agency is able to allocate the necessary resources to ensure overall accuracy and quality of the award and financial cycles as well as to ensure legal and regulatory competence and to ensure the decentralisation of a consulting firm.
3.20.14, 3.20.15 and 3.20.16.
The B↻ro acknowledges the need to have internal legal expertise, and accepts this need.
On top of this, the Bureau shares with the clear conclusion that, in the case of legal services, the interests of the Bureau must always be strictly represented, not the interests of individuals (which does not, however, exclude the interests of each other).
The B스ro r가umts that the inclusion of external legal services has not been adequately controlled.
As the Court notes in its report, internal investigations on this matter will continue and the results will be communicated to the Court.
3.20.17. and 3.20.26.
The B括ro accepts the comments.
These remedies were immediately initiated after the Court found the irregularity in its 2016 audit report (initiation of the Court's report in September 2017).
Unfortunately, however, in 2017 due to the deadlines and to the fact that the B thero replaced the distributors as quickly as possible after the determination of their non-compliance, it actually happened to pay out the contract.
3.20.18. and 3.20.19.
The B梅ro accepts the comments and reiterates that these problems can be seen as a result of the lack of resources and the lack of internal control and management which the Court calls in its report.
3.20.23.-3.20.25.
As the Court notes in its report, an internal investigation of this matter is taking place at the moment.
3.20.29.-3.20.31.
3.20.32.
As regards the final paragraph of the report (43), the report has certain doubts as it carried out its activities in 2016 in accordance with the agreements with DG BUDG.
The Blovero has has consulted DG BUDG on this matter in order to clarify this matter again, and will take immediate action if DG BUDG has to change its previously notified position.
EN C 434/128 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.21.
EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF DISEASES (ECDC) INTRODUCTION 3.21.1.
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (hereinafter referred to as the Centre), based in Stockholm, was established by Regulation (EC) No 851/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (167).
It is also intended to coordinate the European-wide networking of agencies active in this area.
3.21.2.
The table shows the main figures for the Centre (168).
Table Main figures for the 2017 Centre Budget (million euro) 58 total staff numbers on 31 December (1) 279 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
The European Parliament and the Council have proposed the declaration of the declaration of subsidiarity of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union and of the European Parliament of the Parliament of the European Union and of the Council of the European Union, the European Parliament, the Council and the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Parliament, the Council of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the Council of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities and the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the Council of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the Council of the European Communities, the Council of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Communities and the Council of the European Communities, the Council of the European Communities, the European Parliament of the European Communities, the European Communities, the European Communities, the European Economic and the European Communities, the European Communities, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Economic and the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Economic and the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Economic and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament of the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Economic and the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament of the European Parliament, and the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament of the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament of the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the Council the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Economic and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the European Parliament and the European Parliament, the European Parliament, the
(a) the financial statements of the Centre, consisting of the annual accounts(169) and the financial implementation reports (170) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts of the European Union (TFEU) pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The financial account of the Centre for the year ending 31 December 2017 represents the financial and the financial situation of the Centre for the year ending 31 December 2017, the results of its financial statements and cash flows and the changes in the net balance for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector as a whole in all essential matters.
The President
(168) Further information on the Centre's capabilities and capabilities can be found on its website www.ecdc.europa.eu.
(169) The financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the financial statements, the financial statements, the table of changes in net assets, as well as a summary of financial statements and other financial statements.
(170) The reports on budget implementation include the reports that summarise all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/129 Legal jurisdiction and order of the annual accounts of the accounts Revenue Jurisdiction of the legality and order of the revenue and order of the annual accounts 3.21.5. According to our assessment, the revenue and order of the annual accounts of the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are legal and orderly in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments of the annual accounts 3.21.6.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.21.7. The annex gives an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years.
C 434/130 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Year 2015 2016 2016 Situation of acceptance of correction (completed/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress) Completed (1) Completed (2) ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations The Court of Auditors stated that the transparency of the proposed procurement procedures was different, such as the lack of a clear link with the Centre's annual work programme, the lack of a financial guideline (in the form of a threshold) for assessing the financial capacity of the tenderer, the insufficient support for the estimated value of the contract or the lack of a financial guideline (in the form of a threshold value) for assessing the tenderer's financial capacity.
In May 2015, the Interim Director of the Centre was appointed by a decision of the Management Board.
As at 31 December 2016, this vacancy exceeded the maximum period of one year by eight months provided for in the Staff Regulations.
This also resulted in 15 other transitional arrangements for other staff.
In its October 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed that, despite the Centre's ongoing efforts to reinforce its internal controls on procurement, the procurement process remains subject to significant controls.
The IAS concluded that the planning and monitoring of procurement procedures are weak and that procurement procedures are not always covered by the annual work programme or by a financing decision.
In addition, reference is made to the Court's report on the Centre's 2015 annual accounts and to the found accounts, which made the transparency of the procurement procedures the subject of the Court's report.
The Centre and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
As in previous years, the rate of committed appropriations in Title III (operational expenditure) for the following financial year was high, at 7.9 million euro and 41% (2015: 7.5 million euro and 42%).
The transfer of funds was primarily related to several years of scientific advice projects (2.4 million euros), monitoring (1.3 million euros), public health training (1.4 million euros) and IT applications for public health (2.1 million euros).
The Centre may adopt separate budgets in order to better accommodate the multi-annual nature of the activities, as well as the inevitable delays between the signing of contracts, deliveries and payments.
(1) (2) Following a selection procedure, the Interim Director was appointed Director in 2017.
The Centre has introduced new IT tools to improve planning and monitoring of procurement procedures.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/131 REPLY OF THE CENTRUMS The Centre takes note of the Court of Auditors' report.
EN C 434/132 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.22.
EUROPEAN FOOD SECURITY (EFSA) INTRODUCTION 3.22.1.
The European Food Safety Authority (hereinafter referred to as the European Food Safety Authority (hereinafter referred to as the European Food Safety Authority (hereinafter referred to as the European Food Safety Authority), also referred to as the ‘EFSA'), was established in Parma by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council(171).
3.22.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the item (172).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 81 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 443 (1) The budget figures are based on the appropriations for payments.
(2) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the staff. Data provided by the staff member.
(a) the annual accounts of the accounts of the accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (173) and the annual accounts reports (174), for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1.
(172) For more information on the requirements and activities of the project, please consult the following Web address: www.efsa.europa.eu.
(173) The financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in the net income, and a summary of financial statements and other financial statements.
(174) The reports on budget implementation include the reports that summarise all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as reports on budget implementation.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/133 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment of the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.22.5. According to our judgment the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is for the financial year is legal and orderly in all essential respects.
Payments Judicial ruling on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.22.6.
3.22.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF ACCOUNTS 3.22.8.
The head of the Office of the Administration/Corporate Services department is the head of the head of the Office of the Administration/Corporate Services department.
In May 2017, the Authority concluded three framework agreements on the cascade system on behalf of nine agencies participating in the open tender, covering a wide range of expertise.
Although cross-cutting procurement procedures provide a good way of increasing administrative efficiency, in the case of procurement procedures in which the specific services to be provided are not known at the time of the call for tenders, framework agreements which call again for competition for each individual contract, are better suited to achieving a good cost-benefit ratio than framework agreements in the cascade system.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.22.10.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented in 2017 a review report on the procedure for the assessment of regulated products/assessment phase for the approval of contraceptives (175).
The Authority is currently drawing up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM CONTINUED YEARS 3.22.11.
The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years. (175) The Court has not carried out this audit work.
C 434/134 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to observations from previous years observations of the Court The Court has not yet adopted a clear and comprehensive ex-post financial control strategy covering all areas of activity and defined in the frequency and scope of these controls.
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that existing controls, existing for IT project management, were appropriate, but pointed to significant shortcomings in IT governance.
EFSA and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures. 2015-2016 corrective measures state-of-the-art (completed/going/outstanding/n.e.)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/135 REPLY OF THE REPLY OF THE REPLY 3.22.4.
EFSA welcomes the Court's unscathed judgements on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the accounts.
3.22.8.
In order to ensure the independence of the accountant, the formal requirement set out in the EFSA financial regulations will be implemented by EFSA as follows: the current account holder was appointed by the EFSA Board of Directors in 2008.
The accounting officer is the head of the BuS department. In order to ensure the functional independence of the accounting officer in the procedures for performance assessment, the head of the BuS department acts as the assessor and the chairman of the audit committee as the countersigned staff.
The accounting officer may be removed from office at any time from the Management Board, either temporarily or at the end of his term of office.
3.22.9.
There is no obligation to use the individual invitations to tender for the individual invitations to tender for the framework contracts awarded in the cascade system, and the use of the individual invitations to tender model can be appropriate for both types of invitations to tender, depending on the scenario in question.
EFSA considers that once again calls for standard services for competition are more appropriate and used in EFSA services for statistical services, systematic review of literature and target group research.
EFSA uses the cascade model in the first place in the context of a long-term contractual relationship.
In particular, in the case of the framework agreement for external inspection services, the main objective is to (i) ensure an appropriate understanding of EFSA's activities, (ii) a cohesive inspection method, and (iii) credibility at all levels of administration.
EFSA has control over the budget for proposals made by the contractor in the cascade system.
3.22.10.
EFSA will implement the Action Plan for the Evaluation of Regulated Products/Assessment Phase of the Authorisation of Slurry Controlled Products agreed upon after the IAD Authorisation.
EN C 434/136 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.23.
EUROPEAN INSTITUTE FOR EQUALITY INTRODUCTION 3.23.1.
The European Institute for Gender Equality (hereinafter 'the Institute', also 'ÉIGE'), based in Vilnius, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1922/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (176).
3.23.2.
The table contains the main figures for the institution (177).
Table Main figures for the Institute 2017 Budget (million euro) 8 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 45 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
COMPLAINT TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL THE COMPLAINT OF THE HOFES TO THE INDEPENDENT COMPLAINT OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE 2016 INDEPENDENCE OF THE PURPOSE OF THE COMPENDIUM OF THE INDEPENDENCE 3.23.3.
We have a) approved the Institute's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (178) and the financial implementation reports (179) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the financial statements in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
According to our assessment, the Institute's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Institute's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in the net assets for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, as a whole in all essential respects.
(177) Further information on the Institute's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.eige.europa.eu.
(178) The annual financial statements comprise the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in the net financial statement, and a summary of the financial statements and other statements.
(179) The budget implementation reports include the revisions that summarise all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/137 Legal jurisdiction and the regularity of the accounts and the jurisdiction of the accounts and of the accounts of the Union of the European Communities Revenues Judicial judgment of the legality and regularity of the accounts and of the accounts of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Communities and of the European Union of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities C 434/137 Legal jurisdiction and regularity of the accounts of the European Union of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Union of the European Communities of the European Union of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities C 434/137 EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities C 434/137 Legal jurisdiction and regularity of the accounts of the accounts of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Communities of the European Union of the European Communities of the European Communities accounts of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities 3 and of the European Communities
Payments Judgment of jurisdiction and order of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.23.6.
3.23.7.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment. COMMENTS ON RELATIONSHIP AND RELATIONSHIP OF THE PROPOSAL 3.23.8.
The Institute was the defendant at the end of the financial year 2017 in four disputes brought before the Court of First Instance by rejected tenderers in connection with three award procedures.
In each of these cases, the applicant requested the annulment of the award decision and the award of damages.
The claim for compensation in these four cases amounts to EUR 700 000 or 9% of the annual budget of the Institute.
According to the evaluation of the Institute's external attorneys, a toll of EUR 75 000 (or 1% of the Institute's annual budget) was booked to cover the expected losses.
The judgment of the Court of First Instance in each of these cases will determine the legality and order of the procedures for awarding the contracts and the payments to be made.
In 2016, the Institute launched an open call for travel services.
The performance descriptions and the evaluation process did not provide a sufficient guarantee for the best price-performance ratio.
The formula and the pricing mechanism were not appropriate as they did not enable a reasonable evaluation of tenders submitted by the tenderers.
The framework agreement was concluded over a maximum duration of four years and a maximum amount of EUR 700 000.
In 2017, payments of EUR 137,000 were made in H及he.
3.23.10.
In line with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (180) (181). As a framework for the EU institutions is also in place, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT framework covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents for procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
According to the Commission, by the end of 2017, the Institute had introduced the electronic invoicing of certain procedures, but not the electronic invitation to tender and the electronic submission of tenders.
3.23.11.
The Institute publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would provide transparency and publicity, and enable the employers to consult job advertisements of the various European institutions and agencies.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.23.12.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a review report on the management of relations with stakeholders and external communication" (182) presented by the EIGE.
CONTINUE CONFIDENCE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.23.13. The annex gives an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(180) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Governmente).
(181) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic administration (ăe-Government)
(182) The farm did not do this job.
C 434/138 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2016 Completed DE ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Court observations At EUR 1.7 million or 51% (2015: EUR 2.2 million or 60%), the rate of committed appropriations committed to Title III (operational expenditure) for the following financial year was still high, mainly due to year-on-year studies to cover the European Union.
The Institute may use separate budget resources to better meet the multi-annual nature of the activities and the inevitable delays between contracts, deliveries and payments.
In 2016, the Institute launched an open call for a framework agreement for the maintenance and updating of its tools and sources for gender statistics with a maximum amount of 1.6 million euros.
At the request of a bidder, the institution made it clear on its website that the maximum amount per lot was EUR 800 000.
However, two separate framework contracts with the same bidder, with a maximum amount of EUR 1.6 million per lot, were concluded, with the option to continue the contracts by up to 50% per lot, allowing the institution, during the whole duration of the framework contract (up to four years), to separate contracts of up to EUR 4.8 million or to a three-fold amount of the amount specified in the contract notice.
In 2016, payments of 87 920 euros were made in HKontohe.
In response to the survey, the Institute signed the two framework agreements to reduce the maximum amount of the aid to EUR 800000 each (with a potential increase of a maximum of 50 %).
In the invitation to tender in the context of a negotiated procedure with a single tenderer for the procurement of services for the maintenance and support of IT tools and databases, the maximum price for all three services described was limited to 81 000 euros (excluding VAT) and was fixed, that more offers would not be taken into account.
However, after receiving offers for two of the three services requested, the Institute concluded a service contract with a price of 97 410 euros.
Payments in 2016 of 73 057 euros were made. 2016 Payments of 73 057 euros were made in 2016 (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/139 EN Court observations In January 2016, the Institute published its external evaluation.
Year 2016 Status of acceptance of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.) In progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/outgoing/in progress/outgoing/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/outcoming/outcoming/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/in progress/in progress/in progress/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outoutgoing/outgoing/outstanding/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outoutgoing/outcoming/outstanding/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outoutgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outgoing/outoutcoming/outcoming/outgoing/outgoing/outoutoutgoing/outoutoutoutcoming/outoutcoming
DE C 434/140 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE INSTITUTE 3.23.8.
The EIGE took note of the remark.
The EIGE has examined the weaknesses and will adjust the tendering procedures, regardless of the court's rulings in these cases, in order to minimise the risk of future litigation and potential dissatisfaction with rejected candidates.
3.23.9.
The EIGE takes note of the comment and stresses that internal controls are in place in order to check and to check the pricing of flight and hotel offers submitted by the contractor.
The EIGE will address this issue in the network of EU agencies with a view to exchanging examples of the best practices.
In addition, the EIGE expressed interest in participating in a joint call for tenders organised by the Commission's (PMO) services.
Following the award of this contract, the EIGE intends not to defer its existing framework contract on the provision of travel, accommodation and accommodation services.
The comprehensive installation of these modules at the EIGE is expected in the third and fourth quarters of 2018.
In view of the limited number of procedures and the high costs associated with the services, the EIGE has decided not to pursue this option in accordance with the principles of economic efficiency and efficiency.
Taking into account the costs of providing job titles in all 24 EU official languages and the fact that some vacancies are recommended because of their specificity by the publication of job vacancies by other vacancies, the EIGE considers that the vacancies currently used for the publication of their vacancies are of an appropriate transparency and publicity.
3.23.12.
In line with the recommendations made in the report, the EIGE has developed an action plan which is regularly updated and updated.
The agreed deadline for the implementation of all measures expires on December 31, 2018, and the implementation is well advanced.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/141 3.24.
EUROPEAN MEDICINAL PRODUCT AGENCY (EMA) INTRODUCTION 3.24.1.
The European Medicines Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in London, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, replaced by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council(183).
3.24.2.
Table Main figures for the Agency Budget (million Euro) Total personnel on 31 December (2) 2017 331 (1) 766 2016 305 768 (1) Total established budget. The final budget derives from the revenue generated from fees and fees in 2017.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts are the annual accounts (185) and the annual accounts (186) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the financial statements in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the Agency's annual and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its annual accounts and cash flows and the changes in the net balance for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting for the public sector, in all relevant respects as a whole.
(183) OJ No.
(184) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.ema.europa.eu.
(185) The annual financial statements include the annual financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, as well as a summary of the financial statements and other statements.
(186) The reports on budget implementation include the reports, which summarize all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/142 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal jurisdiction and orderliness of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue and the jurisdiction of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.24.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 is legal and orderly in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.24.6.
Emphasis on a situation 3.24.7.
The London-based agency has prepared its preliminary financial statements and preliminary financial statements on the basis of the information available at the time of signature (June 1, 2018).
3.24.8.
On 20 November 2017, the General Affairs Council of the European Union decided to move the Agency's headquarters to Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
The move into provisional realignments is planned for the beginning of 2019, and the agency has invested 18.6 million euros in its annual accounts for the related costs of the realignments.
3.24.9.
In addition, the rental agreement provides for the agency's current routines in London for a rental period of up to 2039 s without an exit clause.
The remaining rental costs up to 2039 are shown in the annual accounts with 489 million euros. Of this amount, in turn, a maximum amount of 465 million euros, this corresponds to the remaining rental period after the agency's planned move to Amsterdam, shown as contingent liability.
3.24.10.
COMMENTS ON THE EXISTENCE OF THE CURRENCY OF ACCOUNTS 3.24.11.
In the agency the head of the financial department is the head of the accountant.
3.24.1.12.
The Agency has also been substantially restructured twice since 2014 and has also been entrusted with new and extensive tasks (see points 32.4.15-3.24.17). Although these events resulted in changes in the Agency's procedures and accounting system, the accounting system has not been revalidated since 2013. COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMY OF BUDGETARY AFFAIRS AND SERVICES 3.24.13.
The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website, but not on the European Personnel Selection Office's website (EPSO). This would increase the transparency and publicity, and would enable the citizens to consult job advertisements from the various EU agencies and agencies.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/143 32.4.14.
In accordance with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a common regulation for electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (187) (188). As a requirement is also applicable for EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT framework covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
By the end of 2017, the Agency had launched the electronic tender for certain procedures, but not the electronic invoicing and submission of tenders.
Management of advisory services 3.24.15.
In the previous year, the Agency was involved in managing consultancy services. In particular, two selected projects for the implementation of the Pharmacovigilance Regulation (Regulation (EU) No 1027/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (189) and Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (190) were undertaken, which required the establishment of complex EU-wide networks, required for the comprehensive technical IT development.
Since the number of posts in the agency's establishment plan was not increased, which would enable it to build up in-house the necessary expertise, the agency drew on consultancy firms for the completion of these tasks.
However, the re-use of consulting companies has led the agency to be independent of this external expertise in a critical manner.
3.24.16.
In order to bring the projects back under their control, the agency determined which functions should not be assigned externally, but should be perceived internally.
The agency also goes on to award consultant contracts no longer according to the criteria of time and resources, but on a fixed price basis.
In addition, it set up a more appropriate procedure for the approval of project changes.
3.24.17.
It will take time to reduce the critical complexity of the agency of consulting firms, and the impact of the measures taken will only become apparent with the years.
One of the two major projects in 2016, the pharmacovigilance project (EudraVigilance database could have been conducted in 2016) was completed in 2017 with additional costs of around 0.5 million euros.
The clinical trials project is still under way. The deadline for commissioning has not been set, but the budget was raised by another 4.9 million euros in 2017 (191).
Initial planned time of commissioning Planned time of commissioning 31 December 2016 Actual/planned time of commissioning 31 December 2017 Original budget (Euro) budget 31 December 2016 (Euro) 3rd quarter 2015 4th quarter 2017 4th quarter 2017 3.7 million 14.3 million 1st quarter 2017 3rd quarter 2018 not fixed 6.1 million 24.3 million EudraVigilance database ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service performed the implementation by the Agency of the Regulation on Pharmacovigilance Fees (192) (193). The Agency prepared an Action Plan to take remedies in areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
(187) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(188) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic administration (ăe-Government)
OJ L 316, 14.11.2012, p. 38.
OJ L 158, 27.5.2014, p. 1.
(191) In 2018, this project was merged with a new project (SUSAR  (CTIS) (information systems for clinical trials)), with a budget of 34.3 million euros.
Regulation (EU) No 658/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council
(193) The Court has not carried out this review. DE C 434/144 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 CONTINUE CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.24.19.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/145 EN ANNEX Follow-up of the observations of previous years observations of the Court In the regulation on the fees of the Agency the deadline for the collection of the fees of applicants and the related payments of the Agency to the competent national authorities is set(1).In the majority of cases the Court has not complied with these deadlines.
In 2014, the Agency conducted an administrative process against its IT staff.
Since the introduction of a new IT accounting system in 2011, the reporting of the work done in relation to the obligations and the work done is not transparent enough.
The agency concluded agreements with 25 hotels in London on company tariffs for the accommodation of experts without the need for a competitive award procedure.
The six agreements on commercial tariffs and the payments of the year 2016 based on these agreements in the amount of approximately 2.1 million euros are therefore contrary to the rules.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with a contractor on the acquisition of software and licenses and related IT maintenance and advisory services on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency).
In 2016, a total of 8.9 million euros of payments were made to the contractor of the framework contract.
The Agency did not systematically compare the calculated prices and prices with the suppliers' offers and did not systematically control the invoices issued to the contractor of the framework contract.
C 434/146 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court observations Since 2014, the Agency has been fundamentally restructured twice, with high and medium-sized management positions being re-allocated internally.
The reassignment of key IT and administration staff has not been successful, and the Agency and its activities have been exposed to a considerable risk of instability.
In addition, there is no system for the analysis of the available skills, for the determination of skills, and for the recruitment and assignment of suitable employees.
Year 2016 2016 Status of the acceptance of the correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.z.)Completed 2016 Consulting services In addition to the annual work carried out for all the agencies, the Court analysed how the Agency used advisory services in the context of two major projects.
Parliament and the Council have entrusted the Agency with the implementation of the Regulation on pharmacovigilance (Regulation (EU) No 1027/2012) and the Regulation on clinical trials (Regulation (EU) No 536/2014), which requires the establishment of complex EU-wide networks.
These tasks were transferred to the Agency at a time when it was expected to reduce its staff in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline of 2 December 2013.
The number of posts in the Agency's establishment plan has not been increased, which would allow it to acquire the necessary expertise in the areas of business and IT development.
Extensive use of external consultants Since the agency had only more than 13 employees in its IT delivery department, it had recourse to the services of consulting companies in the areas of business analysis, information technology, project management and quality assurance.
In the second quarter of 2016, 131 local advisors and 60 other advisors were active outside of the agency.
Since the start of the projects, the agency has been dependent on external expertise in critical areas, but does not have a strategy to regulate the use of consultants.
Insufficient control over project development and implementation When the agency was transferred the new tasks in 2012 and 2014, the agency did not use an appropriate method for managing projects in this framework.
In 2014, a new method was introduced, which had to be considerably introduced in September 2016.
In progress (see paragraphs [3.24.15-3.24.17])
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/147 EN Court's comments In several cases, the proposed activities or the envisaged approach were deviated from before this was approved on the basis of formal amendments.
By mid-2016, all external consultants closed contracts on the basis of time and funds, although the project achievements were clearly defined.
Decreases and cost increases In the development of the systems, the agency was confronted with declines and cost increases.
The many changes in project size, budget and deadlines were mainly due to repeated adjustments to the system requirements, which met the changing needs of the Member States(2).
Two large projects are listed in the table below as examples. Original scheduled time of commissioning Currently scheduled time of commissioning Primary budget (Euro) budget on 31 October 2016 (Euro) EudraVigilance data bank on undisputed time of commissioning Third quarter 2015 4th quarter 2017 3.7 million 14.3 million clinical trials and EU database 1st quarter 2017 3rd quarter 2018 6.1 million 24.3 million In the order of the large-scale 3rd quarter 2015 4th quarter 2017 3.7 million 14.3 million clinical trials and EU database 3rd quarter 2017 6.1 million 24.3 million.
Such a long period of time does not ensure that the interested parties receive a timely feedback of performance.
Year of adoption of the correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.) 2016 In progress (1) Regulation on the Agency's fees, Articles 10 (1) and 11 (1).
(2) Telematics management bodies where the Member States are represented to develop and approve the requirements for future IT systems.
EN C 434/148 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.24.8.
3.24.11.
The Agency is committed to the financial regulations of the EMA: The auditor is already appointed by the Board of Directors pursuant to Article 50(1) of the EMA financial regulations, and the Board of Directors has also adopted a detailed charter of the tasks and responsibilities of the auditor.
The declaration of consistency, signed by the accountant and by the Administrative Director, still reinforces this independence.
In March 2018, the validation of the Agency's accounting systems was started.
3.24.13.
The EMA offers the new section of transparency and publicity, as it publishes or has access, depending on the profile on the EMA website, LinkedIn, agency, or in specialized publications.
As a result, the EMA attracts a great deal of interest among applicants across the EU, with a number of competitions involving more than 1 000 applicants.
In addition, the general implementing provisions concerning the recruitment and use of temporary staff state that the temporary staff selection decisions referred to in Article 2(f) of the BBSB are published only in the working languages of the agencies; however, agencies that do not have a fixed working language publish the selection decisions in all the official languages of the European Union.
The EMA's working language has been English since June 2015 because of a decision of the Administrative Director that has been approved by the Board of Directors.
However, the EPSO has informed the EMA that it has still requested publication on its website that the EMA translates the job advertisements into all EU official languages and makes these language versions available on the EMA website.
It should be noted that the call for tenders for agencies in all EU official languages has a clear impact on the length of the competitions and has a higher cost.
32.4.14.
By the end of 2017, the agency had initiated the electronic tendering procedure for all procedures above the given limit and for all procedures below the specified limit the e-mail tendering procedure.
Although the Agency has not introduced electronic invoicing or submission of tenders, in September 2017, the Agency signed an agreement with the European Commission on the access to and use of electronic invoicing of tenders and is waiting for the European Commission to appoint them.
The agency welcomes the Court's recognition that the EMA has implemented several important measures to respond to the Court's comments from the 2016 audit in relation to the management of advisory services.
The two projects are reduced by the fact that the two co-systems of the interested parties and the desired system of clinical trials of the clinical trials were the result of the complexity of further budgetary resources.
This amendment was submitted and approved within the scope of the portfolio regulation. The project status was submitted to the EMA board of the project.
3.24.18.
The Agency took note of the comment.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/149 3.25.
EUROPEAN OBSERVATION OBSERVATION OBJECTIVES FOR DRUGS AND DRUGS INTRODUCTION 3.25.1.
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (hereinafter referred to as the Centre), based in Lisbon, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (194).
The main task of the Centre is the collection, analysis and dissemination of information on the problem of drugs and drug addiction, with the aim of compiling and publishing objective, reliable and comparable information on the European level.
3.25.2.
The table gives the main figures for the Centre (195).
Table Main figures for the 2017 Observatory Budget (million euro) (1) 16 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 111 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Centre.
The European Parliament and the Council issued the declaration of the European Court of Justice in 2016 in the form of an indispensible statement of the statement of assurance and of the statement of assurance issued in 2016 in the form of a statement of the European Parliament and the Council and in the form of an indispensible declaration of the European Court of Justice and of the European Parliament in the form of a statement of assurance of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Parliament and of a statement of the Court of Justice in the form of a statement of the declaration of the existence of the European Parliament in the form of a declaration of the European Parliament and of the European Parliament in the form of a statement of the Court of Justice in the form of a statement of assurance in the form of a statement of assurance in the form of an indispensible statement of a decision issued in 2016 15 101 a statement of the European Parliament in the form of a declaration of the European Parliament and of the European Council and of the European Parliament in the form of a decision of the declaration of the European Court of Justice 3.25.3.
(a) the annual accounts of the Centre, consisting of the annual accounts of the Centre (196) and the annual accounts of the Centre (197) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the financial statements of the European Union (TFEU) pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
In all major respects, the validity of the discharge of the accounts is the discharge of the discharge of the accounts 3.25.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the Observatory for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the accounts and financial position of the Observatory as of 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in the net account for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector.
(194) OJ No.
(195) For more information on the Centre's facilities and activities, please consult its website www.emcdda.europa.eu.
(196) The annual financial statements comprise the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net income, and a summary of the financial statements and other results.
(197) The reports on budget implementation include the reports, which summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
Payments Payments judgment on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.25.6.
3.25.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.25.8.
At the Observatory, the Head of the Administration/Corporate Services Division is the Head of the Accountant.
3.25.10.
In its Framework Financial Regulation, the agencies should establish a common framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (198) (199). Since a corresponding framework also applies for the EU institutions, the Commission is in the process of developing an IT summary covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication in the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.25.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the Centre's handling of data collection, validation and quality assurance (200).
CONTINUATION OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.25.12.
(198) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(199) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (ăe-Government) (e).
(200) The farm did not carry out these inspections.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/151 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Statements from the Court In 2012, the Observatory signed a framework contract with a maximum amount of 250 000 euros to sign individual entries.
At the end of 2015, the total amount of the payments under this contract amounted to EUR 382 181, i.e. the ceiling was exceeded by 50 %.
In the case of two framework contracts with a maximum value of EUR 135 000 or EUR 650 000, a staff member of the Centre acted in the establishment of the Evaluation Committee, the decisions on approvals and the signing of contracts as authorised authorising officers.
However, the delegation of powers granted by the authorising officer was limited to 130,000 euros, and the scope of the delegation was not limited to 130,000 euros.
In 2016, payments of €35, 310 were made in H of H, €35, €35, €35, €35, €35, €35, €35, €35, €35, €39, €35, €39, €35, €35, €39, €35, €35, €39, €39,0,0 €35,0 €35,0 €39,0 €35,0 €35,0 €39,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €39,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €,0 €39,0 €,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €35,0 €39,0 €35,0 €35,0 € were made in 2016.
In its January 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the importance of improving the management of IT projects.
In particular, the IAS concluded that the long-term strategic overall vision for the IT systems that support the Centre's central operations is lacking, that the Centre's IT project management methodology was only partially adapted to its needs, and that the management of system requirements is inadequate.
The Observatory and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
EN C 434/152 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE OBSERVATION CENTRE 3.25.8. The Centre considers that the current organisational structure has not affected the independence of its accountants.
This independence was ensured in line with the relevant rules, in particular by the appointment by the Centre's Board of Directors of the accounting officer, the functional reporting and accountability of those accounting officers against the Board of Directors, and the proper compliance with the rules on the separation of tasks of the various financial actors of the Centre.
In this context, the Observatory is ready to comply with the Court's recommendation, ensuring that the appropriate measures are in an appropriate context with regard to the size of the organisation and that the effectiveness and effectiveness of its functioning are maintained.
3.25.9.
The Centre also makes its job offers known by means of the dissemination of the members of its governing bodies, the national contact points involved in Reitox, and the other EU agencies.
In addition, the Centre's next selection process is also published on the agency's on-line portal for job vacancies; the EU Agency's network has developed this joint online platform to ensure that agencies' recruitment procedures are publicised.
In this context, the Centre will publish the cost-benefit report of an additional publication on the EPSO portal.
The Observatory meets the requirements for electronic procurement procedures in line with the EU regulatory framework and the timetable for the introduction of electronic procurement procedures in the EU.
In August 2015, the Centre set up, in collaboration with the relevant services of the European Commission, the technical configuration/ICT tool, which is required for electronic invoicing (and which is provided by DG DIGIT of the European Commission for the implementation of DG DIGIT framework contracts).
In addition, in 2017 the Observatory has planned the preparatory measures necessary to be able to use the modules of the electronic call for tenders and the electronic submission of tenders under the provisions of the aforementioned legal framework from October 2018.
The implementation of this plan is underway and the Observatory is assuming that it will meet this deadline without major problems.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/153 3.26.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF IT GROSS SYSTEMS IN THE AREA OF FREEDOM, SECURITY AND JUSTICE (EU-LISA) INTRODUCTION 3.26.1.
The European Agency for the Management of IT-Group Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (eu-LISA) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by the European Parliament and Council Regulation (EU) No 1077/2011 (201), based in Tallinn and located in Stra§burg and St. Johann im Pongau.
The Agency's central role is to manage the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II), the Visa Information System (VIS) and the European System for the reconciliation of Fingerabdr-k-ken (Eurodac).
3.26.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (202).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 79 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 152 (1) The figures for the budget are based on the appropriations for payments.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE INDEPENDENCE IN THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL
(a) the Agency's annual accounts shall consist of the annual accounts (203) and the annual accounts reports (204) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the annual accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.26.4. In our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the Agency's annual and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its annual accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's invoicing officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, are, as a whole, appropriate in all the essential respects.
OJ L 286, 1.11.2011, p. 1.
(202) Further information about the Agency's capabilities and capabilities can be found on its website www.eulisa.europa.eu.
(203) The financial statements include the the financial statements, the financial statements, the cash flow statements, the table of changes in net assets and a summary of the financial statements and other changes in financial statements.
(204) The reports on budget implementation include the reports, which summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/154 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.26.5. According to our assessment, revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is, in all essential respects, legal and regular.
Payments Jurisdiction concerning the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.26.6.
3.26.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMIC AFFAIRS OF THE BUDGET AND SERVICES 3.26.8. The Agency had difficulties in reaching a sufficient number of tenderers in several medium-value procurement procedures in 2017.
3.26.9.
The Agency is currently managing three dedicated, non-integrated IT-Groups (SIS II, VIS and Eurodac) which process all data on the EU's policy area of freedom, security and justice.
This approach could prevent the Agency from achieving economies of scale and synergies between the different systems.
The current changes to extend the Agency's mandate in the coming years to the management of several additional IT systems underpin the increasing urgency of this problem.
The Agency, in consultation with the Commission and the Member States, should establish a detailed cost-benefit analysis to contribute to a discussion on the future development strategy for the systems.
3.26.10.
The project for the construction of a new building at the site in Stra§burg was significantly lost.
Although the Agency had already paid the full price for the construction work in 2016, these were still not completed at the end of 2017 and the progress reports on the works in progress were for only around 70% of the work.
Some of the agency's staff have already taken over the new building, although the work was still ongoing.
The Agency and the Contractor blame each other for the failures. In December 2017, the Contractor made financial demands for the Agency and filed a lawsuit.
The agency exercises its own legal claim against the contractor (205).
3.26.11.
3.26.12.
In accordance with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform regulation for electronic storage and the electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (206) (207). In view of the need for the EU institutions to do so, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT framework, covering all stages of public procurement procedures, with the launch of electronic invoicing tools (2010), the electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
Counselling 3.26.13.
The agency uses consulting services mainly in connection with IT projects because of the nature of its activities.
According to the Agency's records, IT projects were implemented in 2017 within the financial and timeframes.
For the few development maintenance projects that complain somewhat behind the schedule, exceptional reports have been prepared.
(205) See also the Agency's 2017 annual accounts, section 2.1.5 ăEvents after the closing date或. (206) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government).
(207) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/155 3,26.14.
The Agency uses a outsourcing model for the development and implementation of IT projects, in which approximately 90% of the corresponding work is carried out by contractors.
There are three main framework agreements with three consortia, one for each system.
Payments to these framework agreements in 2017 amounted to EUR 3 million for Eurodac, EUR 16 million for SIS II and EUR 13 million for VIS.
Although all phases of the IT projects, from the definition of the requirements and the milestones to the commissioning of new system components, are the property of and are under their control, a model in which the development of such sensitive IT systems is outsourced to this extent, entails significant risks in terms of a superior dependence of the contractors.
This applies even more in the light of the limited number of potential contractors in operational and safety areas that can handle the systems of these areas and these requirements.
3.26.15.
At the same time, the low number of staff in operational key units, in particular in the ăReferat for Application Management and Maintenance, entails a significant risk for the continuity of the operation.
In the second half of 2017, the head of the AMM unit temporarily held the position of head of the operational department and the head of the department for operation and infrastructure and thus merged the three highest management positions in the operating department, which entails additional risks for the continuity.
3.26.16.
The framework agreements concluded with the consortia concerned for the operation of the main IT systems include not only normal maintenance, but also the developmental maintenance work, the price of which cannot be calculated on the basis of the cost estimates attached to the framework agreements.
The prices for the individual contracts are calculated by the Agency on the basis of a combination of the fixed price and the estimate of the time and resources, thus aiming for a solid cost control.
For the VIS contract, the agency also relied on the IFPUG (208) method, a standard method based on the function point analysis for determining the price for developmental abilities.
The agency could also use the IFPUG method for other systems in implementation.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.26.17.
The Agency committed a total of 69.9 million euros in global commitments in order to cover future expenditure on new tasks and IT systems to be transferred to it in 2017 but for which the legal basis had not yet been adopted by the end of the year (Eurodac recasting and the allocation system to Dublin) or only recently (Regulation on the system of entry to/exit of 30 November 2017).
The corresponding appropriations for payments have been reduced by two amending budgets of EUR 85.6 million, from EUR 153,3 million in the original budget, to EUR 85.6 million in the final budget.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.26.18.
In December 2017, the Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented a report to the Commission on the control of procurement procedures at eu-LISA (209).
The Agency has drawn up an action plan in order to take corrective action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
CONTINUE CONTINUATION OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.26.19. The Annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years.
(208) International Function Point Users Group. (209) The farm did not carry out these inspection work.
C 434/156 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Year 2013 Progress of the adoption of the corrective measures (completed/in progress/outstanding/in progress/in progress) In the course of the ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years Comments of the Court Gem-§ of the Agency's Agency's Progress Regulation L6 countries associated with the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis and Eurodac-related measures contribute to the Agency's budget.
The Agency concluded a framework contract of EUR 2 million for procurement services, which a contractor for third party training, coaching and learning offers (training offers) provides.
In 2016, the agency received and accepted EUR 2.8 million worth of goods for which there were no commitments and no legal obligations.
2015 (not under the control of the Agency) Outstanding 2015 2015 2016 Ongoing (not under the control of the Agency) Ongoing (not under the control of the Agency) Ongoing (not under the control of the Agency) Ongoing (not under the supervision of the Agency) Ongoing (not under the supervision of the Agency) Ongoing (not under the control of the Agency) Ongoing (not under the control of the Agency) Ongoing (not under the supervision of the Agency)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/157 EN Court of Auditors' observations The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded in its July 2016 audit report that the overall structure and practical implementation of the procedures ensure that eu-LISA operates the SIS II, VIS and Eurodac IT systems in a way that makes it possible for the national authorities using these systems to exchange data continuously and without interruption.
The rate of committed appropriations transferred to the following financial year is high for Title II (administrative expenditure) of EUR 5 million and 63% of committed appropriations (2015: EUR 9 million and 50% respectively).
In June 2015, the agency completed a construction contract of 21.5 million euros for its premises in Stra§burg.
At one of the meetings of the Agency's Management Board in 2016, the representative of the Commission raised the problem of rising maintenance costs.
Although the rising costs can be explained, for example, by the ongoing development and extended functions of the systems, the Court identified procurement procedures in which the agency did not Court the most cost-effective solution had been chosen.
For example, under a framework agreement, the Agency acquired a new software license for 4.6 million euros, without verifying whether the contractor for the framework agreement, acting as the intermediary between the Agency and potential software suppliers, had achieved the best price.
In May 2016, the Agency concluded a EUR 194 million framework agreement with a consortium to develop and maintain the Visa Information System (VIS) and the Biometric Matching System (BMS) over a period of up to six years.
Year 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
C 434/158 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 DE Court of Auditors' observations An external evaluation of the Agency was carried out by the Commission on behalf of the Commission by December 2015; the results were presented in March 2016 in the final evaluation report.
The evaluators made 64 recommendations to further improve operational management, seven of which were considered critical and eleven considered to be very important.
The Agency has drawn up a plan to follow up the recommendations; this plan is currently being implemented. Year 2016 The revision plan is a follow-up (completed/in progress/outstanding/in progress) n.e.c.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/159 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.26.8.
In the case of medium-value procurement procedures, the Agency shall systematically publish ex-ante notifications on its website, in accordance with Article 103(2) of the Financial Regulation.
In December 2017, the Commission presented two proposals for a regulation establishing a framework for interoperability between EU information systems (borders and visas, police and judicial cooperation, asylum and migration).
In addition, the Agency's mandate (in the last stages still to be adopted) will be the subject of the review of the Agency's mandate, which will determine the need for the development of interoperability measures which will be subject to the adoption of relevant legislative proposals.
The Agency has so far contributed its technical expertise and know-how to the discussions of the High Level Group of Experts on Information Systems and Interoperability.
At the same time, a study (which has not yet been completed) was carried out to obtain a clear picture of the future architecture of interoperable IT systems.
The study also includes an impact assessment and a migration and integration plan for the interoperability components of existing and future systems.
The agency confirms the delay in the implementation of the construction project in Stra§burg.
The staff moved to the new building after the work was moved to the new building.
The construction work in the other building is in the data centre and is still ongoing.
In order to provide legal support for this contract, the agency signed a contract with an external law firm.
She pointed out that she also published job offers on the website of the EU Agency Network as well as on the ăEU Training as well.
However, additional funding is needed to take account of EPSO's language regime, according to which job advertisements are to be translated into all EU languages (e.g., the costs of the translation of a job advertisement into all EU languages are estimated at EUR 12 000).
As regards the electronic submission of tenders, due to technical problems, the tool could not be used on the platform managed by DG DIGIT of the Commission, and, like other agencies, the Agency was therefore unable to use the platform reliably in 2017.
Once the platform is stable, the agency intends to use it for its allocations.
3.26.13.
The Agency notes the findings and the Agency's efforts to further reduce the number of projects which are falling behind the timetable and has therefore started implementing the measures to improve the planning process (see also notes 32.6.16).
According to the Agency's key performance indicators (paragraph 22) in the 2017 Consolidated Annual Report, for the projects completed compared to the quality, cost and time parameters, an actual value of 8.79% is in line with the target of 10%.
Furthermore, in 2017, eu-LISA's project management method was adapted and updated in order to align it with the strategy and the PRINCE2 method.
An Enterprise Project Management Tool was introduced to enable better reporting and resource allocation throughout the agency.
3.26.14.
The agency supports the high participation of external contractors in IT projects (operational and organisational).
This high outsourcing rate is directly related to Commission Communication COM(2013) 519 on financial and human resources planning for the decentralised agencies for the period 2014-2020.
The establishment plan did not provide sufficient posts for the scope of the tasks entrusted to the Agency in 2012.
In addition, the scope of the Agency's tasks was considerably increased from 2013 onwards, but its requests for additional staff were rejected and the Agency had to reduce its staff, as requested by the Commission's Communication (a total of seven posts).
In order to ensure a proper separation of tasks, the contractors involved in the quality assurance do not provide external support services for the operational management of IT-Group systems.
The agency makes this extraordinary situation worse, in which a member of staff had to carry out a temporary additional task.
The appointment was forced due to the long absence of the head of the operational department and the ongoing recruitment process for the further free leadership position.
To remedy this, the Agency appointed another employee, the head of the ăSecurity Unit, as head of the ăOperation and Infrastructure Unit, until the newly appointed leader took up his duties on 1 July 2018.
EN C 434/160 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.26.16.
System developments can only be summarized when the call for tenders for framework contracts is launched, which is why specific developments must be negotiated as soon as the requirements are known (e.g. when the legal basis of the systems is changed).
In the context of the reworking of its procurement strategy, the Agency will address the procurement options, including the adoption of the IFPUG method, in order to reduce the dependence of a single contractor in the case of further developments.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS)'s 2017 Action Plan for the Control of Procurement Procedures includes elements relevant to this remark.
3.26.17.
The scenario and the associated risks were identified in 2016 and included in the Agency's estimate of revenue and expenditure for 2017.
Due to the lack of the legal basis for the new tasks, the Board of Directors was informed throughout the year about the risks, risks, and constraints associated with the adoption of major global commitments.
3.26.18.
The agency will provide this information.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/161 3.27.
EUROPEAN CENTRE OF JUDICIAL COOPERATION (EUROJUST) INTRODUCTION 3.27.1.
Council Decision 2002/187/JHA(210) established the European Judicial Cooperation Unit (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Eurojust'), based in The Hague, to strengthen the fight against serious organised crime.
3.27.2.
The table contains the most important figures for Eurojust (211).
Table Main figures for Eurojust 2017 Budget (million euro) 48 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 242 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
DECLARATION OF THE DECLARATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE DECLARATION PREVENTION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL IN 2016 44 245 PREVENTION DECLARATION 3.27.3.
We have a) audited Eurojust's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (212) and the annual accounts reports (213) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the annual accounts underlying the annual accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Indemnity of the Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing 3.27.4.
According to our assessment, Eurojust's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent, in all material respects, the accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017, the balance and financial position of the position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and its cash flows as well as the changes in the net balance for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in compliance with its annual financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognized accounting principles for the public sector.
OJ L 63, 6.3.2002, p. 1.
(211) Further information on Eurojust's facilities and activities can be found at www.eurojust.europa.eu.
(212) The financial statements comprise the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the net net change table, and a summary of net change of the financial statements, and other financial statements.
(213) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarise all revenue and expenditure projections, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/162 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the accounts of the accounts Revenue Judicial opinion on the legality and regularity of the accounts revenue 3.27.5. According to our assessment, the revenue on the accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Judgement on the legality and legality of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.27.6.
3.27.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMIC ACTIVITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.27.8. Eurojust publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
REFERENCES FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.27.9. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/163 EN ANNEX Follow-up to the Court's observations on previous years In its 2010 report, the Court noted that a redefinition of the tasks and responsibilities of the Administrative Director and the College of Eurojust should be considered in order to avoid the overlapping of responsibilities currently arising from the establishment regulation.
At EUR 6446530 or 40% (2015: EUR 1.6 million or 22%), the rate of the committed appropriations for Title II (expenditure for supporting activities) for the following financial year was high.
These transfers mainly concerned work that extends beyond the end of the year, as well as work that was commissioned in preparation for the relocation of Eurojust to new premises in 2017 (4 867 482 euros).
Year 2011 2016 The new Eurojust Regulation is still being tested by the legislator. State of the adoption of the correction (completed/in progress/outstanding/ n.e.c.) In progress (not under the control of Eurojust) n.e.c.
DE C 434/164 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF EUROJUST 3.27.8. The statement that Eurojust does not use EPSO for recruitment processes is correct.
This approach is based on financial restrictions, as EPSO is demanding that job advertisements be translated into all 24 official EU languages.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/165 3.28.
AGENCY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION FOR COOPERATION IN THE AGENCY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION INTRODUCTION 3.28.1.
The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in The Hague, has been established by Regulation (EU) 2016/794 of the European Parliament and of the Council (214), repealing and replacing Council Decision 2009/371/JHA (215).
The Agency aims to strengthen and strengthen the effectiveness of the police forces and of the other police forces of the Member States and their mutual cooperation in the prevention and prevention of the serious criminality of two or more Member States, terrorism and the forms of criminality which violate a common interest which is the subject of a Union policy.
3.28.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Agency (216).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euros) 118 Total staff on 31 December (1) 804 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
The European Parliament and the Council adopted the European Parliament resolution on the failure of the Court of Justice and of the Court of First Instance and the Court of First Instance of the European Communities to act on the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Court of First Instance of the European Communities on the interpretation and application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women of the European Communities and of the Court of First Instance of the European Communities and the Court of Justice of the European Communities of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the European Communities and of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and of the Court of First Instance of Justice of the European Communities and of the Court of Justice of the European Communities of the European Communities, and in particular of the Court of First Instance of the European Communities, adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities, adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Communities, in particular by the Court of First Instance, the Court of Justice of Justice and the Court of Justice of First Instance in the Court of Justice of Justice and the European Communities of the European Communities, adopted by the Court of Justice of the Council of Justice in the Court of the European Instance of Justice of First Instance of the European
We have (a) reviewed the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (217) and the financial implementation reports (218) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and legality of the financial statements underlying the accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The annual accounts of the Agency for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as of 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows as well as the changes in the net revenue for the year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all the essential matters as a whole.
OJ L 135, 24.5.2016, p. 53.
OJ L 121, 15.5.2009, p. 37.
(216) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.europol.europa.eu.
(217) The annual financial statements comprise the financial statements, the financial results, the financial statements, the cash flow, the table of changes in net financial statements, and a summary of the net accounting statements and other accounting statements.
(218) The reports on budget implementation include the reviews that summarize all the revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/166 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue and administrativeity of the revenue of the annual accounts of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue of the annual accounts of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union and the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union 30.11.2018
Payments Annulment of the law and order of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.286.
3.28.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMIC AFFAIRS OF THE BUDGET AND SERVICES 3.28.8. The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.28.9.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service published a report on procurement in the European Police Office (219).
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.28.10.
The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years. (219) The Court did not carry out this review.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/167 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations As in previous years, the rate of committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) of EUR 3.5 million (2015: EUR 4.2 million, 41%) was high.
These transfers concern expenditure incurred mainly in 2016 for the Office's headquarters, which will not be charged by the host state until 2017 (2 million euros).
Year 2016 Status of the correction acceptance (completed/going/outgoing/ n.e.c.) n.e.c.
EN C 434/168 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWER OF THE AGENCY 3.28.8.
Europol employs over 220 liaison officers from EU Member States and third countries and organisations.
The common working language of Europol is English. Therefore, Europol's internal language arrangements adopted by the Management Board specify that, unless otherwise agreed, recruitment procedures are to be carried out in English.
For this reason, Europol's job advertisements are published in English.
Europol is implementing an effective and transparent recruitment process with a quota of 0% at the end of 2017. In the 89 recruitment procedures carried out in 2017, there were an average of 58 candidates per selection process.
For publication on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) the translation into the EU official languages is required in addition to the English version.
Due to the high number of job offers per year, translation into the EU official languages would entail high costs and the duration of the procedures would be longer.
Europol focuses on operational needs in budgetary expenditure, so the translation of job vacancies into all EU official languages, including EPSO publication, is only in certain cases (e.g. the Executive Director or Deputy Executive Directors).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/169 3.29.
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR PRINCIPLE RIGHTS (FRA) INTRODUCTION 3.29.1.
The Agency of the European Union of Fundamental Rights (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Vienna, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 168/2007 (220).
3.29.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (221).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 23 Total staff on 31 December (1) 108 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (222) and the financial implementation reports (223) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.29.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending December 31, 2017 constitute the Agency's annual and financial position as at December 31, 2017, the results of its annual accounts and its cash flows, as well as the changes in the net accounts for the financial year ending December 31, 2017, in compliance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's invoicing officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects as a whole.
OJ L 53, 22.2.2007, p. 1.
(221) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.fra.europa.eu.
(222) The financial statements comprise the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net income, and a summary of the accounting and other financial statements.
(223) The reports on budget implementation include the reports which summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/170 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Judicial opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.29.5. In our opinion the revenue underlying the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Payments on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.29.6.
3.29.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.29.8.
The agency's head of Corporate Services is the head of the invoicing officer.
In 2017, the Agency encountered difficulties in the procurement of studies due to unrealistic market inductions.
At least three open tenders were unsuccessful as the Agency received only tenders in the required quality, which significantly exceeded the specified maximum contract value.
3.29.10.
The agencies should establish a uniform definition of electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (224) (225). The Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system covering all stages of public procurement procedures, and has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for procurement notices in the EU Official Journal (2011), and electronic submission of tenders (2015), in order to establish a uniform framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (224) (225).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.29.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service carried out a review in the Agency on governance and ethics(226).
3.29.12.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance was carried out on behalf of the Commission in the period 2013-2017 (227).
CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM CONVENTION OF PREVIOUS YEARS 3.29.13. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken by the Court on the basis of observations made in previous years.
(224) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration.
(225) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(226) The court did not carry out this inspection work.
(227) The Court did not submit this evaluation work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/171 EN ANNEX Follow-up of comments from previous years Court's comments The Court's formal delegation of powers (or of delegation) from authorising officers (or of authorising officers duly authorised) does not always agree with the authorising powers of the ABAC Workf low module.
At 5.2 million euros and 68% (2015: 5.7 million euros and 70% respectively) the rate of committed appropriations for Title III (operational expenditure) was high for the following financial year.
This is mainly due to the nature of the activities to be undertaken, to which the funding of studies, which extend over several months, often also over the turn of the year, extend.
The Agency may set aside separate budgetary resources in order to better cope with the multi-annual nature of the activities and the inevitable inflections between contract signings, deliveries and payments.
Year 2016 2016 Status of correction acceptance (closed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.) Completed
EN C 434/172 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWER OF THE AGENCY 3.29.8.
Following the restructuring of the Agency, which will be completed by the end of 2018, the position of the accounting officer will be subordinated to the administrative responsibility of the Director and be directly under the responsibility of the Management Board (as has always been the case).
To maintain existing synergies, the invoicing officer will continue to work closely with the Corporate Services department.
3.29.9.
All the studies concerned were public tendered and were therefore appropriate to all economic operators.
The extensive studies carried out by FRA are quite unique in the EU, both in terms of the subject matter and in terms of having to be carried out in all EU Member States.
In addition, the Agency has limited resources for these measures.
However, in future calls for proposals of this kind, the Agency will consider carrying out market research, if necessary, the technical requirements of the project, and, if possible, reassess the priority of the studies to be carried out.
However, this problem would be much easier to solve if more funds were to be spent on operational expenditure.
The Agency started implementing such systems in 2018, which will be available within the deadline set.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/173 3.30.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE FRONTEX INTRODUCTION 3.30.1.
The European Agency for Border and Coast Guard (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), was set up by Regulation (EU) 2016/1624 of the European Parliament and of the Council (228) (the new Council Regulation) repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 (229).
It has been expanded on the basis of the European Agency for the Development of Operational Cooperation on the external borders of the Member States, while maintaining the abbreviation "Frontex" and the Warsaw headquarters.
The new establishment regulation will extend the Agency's mandate; the Agency will also be entrusted with the task of providing the European level with an integrated border management at the external borders with a view to effectively managing the crossing of external borders.
This includes the fight against migratory pressure and potential future threats at these borders, while at the same time contributing to the fight against severe crime with a cross-border dimension, in order to ensure a high level of internal security within the Union, while fully respecting fundamental rights and respecting freedom in this area.
3.30.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (230).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euros) 281 Total staff on 31 December (1) 526 (1) Personnel actually employed at the Agency, including officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
The final establishment plan for 2017 provided for more posts: 352 posts for temporary civil servants and temporary staff and 303 posts for contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (231), and the financial implementation reports (232) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying those accounts, pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's annual and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its annual accounts and cash flows as well as the changes in its net account for the year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all of the main respects.
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of 24 November 2014 implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) for Rural Development (EAFRD) (OJ L 347, 20.12.2014, p. 1).
OJ L 349, 25.11.2004, p. 1.
(230) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on the website www.frontex.europa.eu.
(231) The financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net income, as well as a summary of the financial statements and other explanations.
(232) The reports on budget implementation include the reports which summarise all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/174 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial ruling on the legality and order of revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.30.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Judicial ruling on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.30.6.
Note 3.30.7.
The Agency's expenditure for financial assistance increased considerably from EUR 123 million (2016) to EUR 167 million (2017).
Unlike in previous years, the Agency did not undercut the reimbursements for expenditure related to grants in 2017.
It considers that the ex ante ex- ante-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Since 2014, however, the Court has repeatedly reported that cooperating countries often have insufficient evidence of the expenditure they have claimed, which has been the case again in the case of this case (see paragraphs 3.30.12-3.30.13).
3.30.8.
In 2016, the Court recommended the Agency to identify the most appropriate financing mechanism in an in-depth analysis (233).
In this context, the Court notes that the Board of Directors decided at the end of 2017 to use the unit costs instead of the reimbursement of the actual costs of operational activities.
At the same time, a pilot project was launched in 2018 to determine the unit costs for the deployment of deployment funds for cooperating states.
In addition, in June 2017, the Board of Directors approved a new organisational structure of the Agency, which will take effect from 2018 and includes the creation of a new inspection and control body, which will report directly to the Executive Director and the Board of Directors in order to adapt the previous organisation to the new mandate (see point 3.30.9).
3.30.9.
In view of the migration crisis facing the Union, the mandate of the Agency was significantly extended in 2016.
The Agency's budget was increased by 75% in 2016 and the budget for 2017 was again 21% higher than in the previous year.
Personnel increased by 18% in 2016 and by an additional 43% compared to the previous year.
The adaptation of the systems and procedures to the new mandate and the new situation is still under way.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment and are to be read against the background of the challenges the agency had to address.
COMMENTS ON RIGHTS AND RULES ON THE PROPOSALS 3.30.10.
Following an open invitation to tender, the Agency received four offers, covering the promotion of migrants within Greece.
After testing the selection criteria, three offers were retained and one was excluded.
The only criterion for the award was the price.
In April 2017, the Agency signed a framework agreement of € 2 million for a three-year period with the company that had offered the lowest price.
However, the contractor's coverage was limited from the season to the season, and he had problems to complete the order, so that the agency started the order at the end of 2017.
To ensure continuity of services, the agency for the remaining period signed a new framework agreement of EUR 1.8 million with the second-ranked bidder in November 2017, who had offered the second lowest price.
It did not negotiate the terms of the replacement contract with the tenderers ranked second and third but signed the new contract on the basis of the initial tender submitted by the second-placed tenderer.
The direct award of the replacement was contrary to the rules, since the original award procedure was completed and a negotiated procedure to agree the terms of the contract, which would apply until the conclusion of a new open procedure, did not take place.
No payments were made on this replacement order in 2017.
3.30.11.
The Staff Regulations provide that, in the case of an external selection procedure, temporary staff will be recruited only in grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (234).
In 2017, the Agency hired two staff members (2016: 14) in higher AST grades.
(233) Special Report No 12/2016 ăThe use of financial assistance by agencies: not always adequate or demonstrably effective. (234) Article 53(2) of the Staff Regulations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/175 COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12.
In 2017, the Agency of the Islantics guard provided financial support in connection with the deployment of an aircraft in Greece.
Before reimbursing the expenditure claimed by Iceland, the Agency requested invoices as proof of a category of expenditure declared.
Although the invoices were never submitted, the Agency reimbursed around EUR 440 000.
In this case, the ex-ante---berprunung was therefore ineffective.
3.30.13.
The Agency also co-financed the use of an aircraft used by the Spanish Guardia Civil.
In the absence of supporting documents for the costs claimed for inspection and maintenance work, the Agency reimbursed EUR 430 000 on the basis of average costs per flight hour.
These average costs were calculated on the basis of cost ceilings used in exchanges between Spanish authorities and private contractors for inspection and maintenance work.
There is a risk that higher costs will be reimbursed than actually incurred.
3.30.14.
Although the Agency has already received its current accounts in 2014, it has still not drawn up a comprehensive contingency plan approved by the Management Board.
COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.30.15.
The Agency again cancelled a large amount of committed appropriations carried over from the previous year for the reimbursement of the expenditure of States participating in joint actions, amounting to EUR 7.7 million and EUR 16.5% respectively (2016: EUR 5.6 million and 17.6%).
This shows that the cooperating states had once again clearly overestimated the expenses to be reimbursed by the Agency.
Although funds transferred for joint actions had to be cancelled in two consecutive years, in 2017, the Agency transferred €9.6 million from other budget lines to joint actions, which again transferred an amount of €40,5 million to the following financial year.
Joint actions represent 69% of the total amount cancelled in 2017 (EUR 11.1 million) and 46% of the total amount transferred in 2018 (EUR 87.6 million).
3.30.16.
In 2017, 66.5 million euros were spent on return operations. However, fewer actions were carried out than funds were available.
The Agency therefore paid back to the Commission EUR 13.5 million and EUR 20.3% (2016: EUR 23 million and 37.5%).
In addition, the Agency paid EUR 4 million of the budget of Title I of the Budget, as the number of new employees could not be employed as planned in 2017.
3.30.17.
The Agency's original budget for 2017 comprised 8.8 million euros for the required operational financial reserve to finance immediates for border security purposes and return operations (235).
However, in September and again in October 2017 the agency transferred 1.9 million euros (in the sum of 3.8 million euros) of its operating budget to finance other activities.
3.30.18.
After the transfer of appropriations from other budget lines and the establishment of an amending budget the appropriations entered in the rescheduling amounted to 24.7 million euros and 8.1% of the original budget.
However, the agency used the opportunity mainly to finance standard operations (8.4 million euros) and to finance a project for remote air monitoring (drones, 7 million euros), for which it had estimated only 1.1 million euros.
The estimate and use of unregulated complaints is incompatible with the principle of the specialised budget and is incompatible with the transparency of the budget.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF THE BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND ON THE BENEFIT 3.30.19. The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and in other media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.30.20.
In accordance with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a single regulation for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (236) (237). In view of the fact that a corresponding regulation also applies for the EU institutions, the Commission is in the process of developing an IT summary, covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents for procurement notices in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
According to the Commission, the Agency had, by the end of 2017, introduced the electronic invoicing and the electronic invitation to tender for certain procedures, but not the electronic submission of tenders.(235) Article 75(13) of its Article 75(13) of its Regulation, Article 79 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 of the electronic administration (ăe-Government) and Article 75(13) of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013.
(237) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (ăe-Government)
EN C 434/176 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.30.21.
However, the documents submitted by the cooperating States as supporting documents for the expenditure claimed are not always sufficient.
In addition, no certificates were required, although this is recommended for grants exceeding certain ceilings in the implementing provisions for the EU Financial Regulation (1).
In view of the large and constantly increasing number of grant agreements and the number and size of the eligible expenditures to be reimbursed and reimbursed by the agency, the question arises whether more efficient and cost-effective forms of financing could be used.
The contributions of the associated Schengen countries (Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway) should be calculated more precisely in order to better comply with the legislation(3).
The ex-post operation carried out by the Agency in Iceland in October 2015 identified illegal payments of a total amount of 1.4 million euros linked to the amortisation of a vessel involved in seven joint actions in the period 2011-2015.
The Icelandic guards had requested reimbursement of the depreciation costs for the ship, although the service life of the ship had already exceeded the Agency's guidelines.
Although the Agency is entitled to recover the irregular payments made within the last five years, it has announced that only payments made since January 2015 will be recovered in the amount of 0.6 million euros.
C 434/178 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court observations The Internal Security Fund was established for the period 2014-2020.
It comprises two instruments: the instrument for the financial support for external borders and visas and the instrument for the financial support for police cooperation: the EUR 2.8 billion (international borders and visas) and the EUR 1 billion (police cooperation) for the financing of borders.
Under the instrument for financial support for external borders and visas, the Commission shall reimburse the Member States for the cost of equipment such as vehicles or ships, as well as operating costs such as fuel or maintenance costs.
The Agency shall also reimburse participants in joint actions for such costs.
There is therefore a risk of double financing (4) which is not taken into account.
Border-participating states shall determine the costs incurred on the basis of cost statements, which shall include ăFix-costs (depreciation and maintenance costs), ăvariable expenditures (mainly fuel) and ăU-costs (mainly expenditures and other expenditures for crew members).
The reported costs are based on actual values and correspond to national standards. Consequently, the approaches of the participating states differ and this leads to a particularly complex system for all participants.
In its Special Report No 12/2016, the Court recommended that the agencies make use of simplified cost options whenever this appears appropriate to avoid such inefficiencies (5).
The Agency's current current advisory regulation until 5 October 2016 provides for the funding of joint funding operations carried out with participating countries.
However, from January to October 2016, the Agency financed national return operations with a sum of EUR 3.6 million.
These payments are illegal.
The Staff Regulations provide that, in the case of an external selection procedure, temporary staff may be recruited only in grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (6).
In 2016, the Agency hired 14 staff in higher AST grades.
At 6.4 million euros and 43% (2015: 3.2 million euros and 38%) for Title II (administrative expenditure) and 67.3 million euros and 37% (2015: 40.2 million euros and 35% respectively) for Title III (operational expenditure), the rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year increased.
The Agency may adopt separate budgets in order to better meet delays that inevitably arise between legal obligations, order execution and obligations, and corresponding payments.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/179 EN Court observations The cancellation of the commitments of the year 2015 was high for Title III (operational expenditure) of 6.4 million euro or 16%, as the costs of 2015 for which the participating countries had to be reimbursed had been overestimated.
Within the wider mandate of the Agency, return actions are given a high priority; in the budget of the Agency for 2016, funds of EUR 63 million were allocated for return actions.
However, EUR 23 million or 37.5% of this amount was paid back to the EU budget, as fewer reverse actions were carried out than planned.
The considerable reduction in the procurement procedure for a framework contract of EUR 50 million for the chartering of aircraft and related services for Frontex-R前ck-kehr-aktion contributed to this situation and continues to have a negative impact on the number of return actions organised by the Agency.
The launch of this award procedure was planned for March 2016 and still has not been completed by the end of the year.
On 22 December 2015, the Commission and the Agency, as co-chairman and coordinator of three other co-chairmen (EASO, IOM and UNHCR) (7), signed a grant agreement of EUR 5.5 million for a three-year period for the regional support of the protection-oriented migration management in the Western Balkans and Turkey as from 1 January 2016.
However, the cooperation agreements with the three partners (legal obligations) of 3.4 million euros were signed only in the period August to November 2016.
In the case of two of these agreements, the commitments with which the funds must be released before legal commitments have been made have been made, which is only in October and December 2016.
Moreover, commitments amounted to EUR 1.2 million, covering only pre-financing payments.
Such an approach is contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation on the implementation of the budget; moreover, the signing of the agreements at the end of the year led to uncertainty as to the operational cooperation between the partners.
The Agency's 2016 establishment plan included 275 posts for officials and temporary staff (8). At the end of 2016, only 197 and 71% of those posts were filled, mainly as 50 new posts were created only in October 2016 and the recruitment has yet to be completed.
The agency regularly focuses on difficulties when recruiting employees with the required profiles, partly due to the correction coefficients for the employees. (66.7%). Year 2016 The status of the correction measure (completed/in progress/outstanding/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress.)
C 434/180 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations Following the extension of the Agency's mandate, the number of Agency's staff will exceed twice the number of staff from 365 in 2016 to 1,000 in 2020(9).
This increase was not based on a sound assessment of demand.
The Agency is currently analysing together with the Commission and the host country the possibilities to reduce this need.
Year 2016 2016 Date of adoption of the correction (completed/in progress/outstanding/ n.e.c.) n.e.c. (1) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2012, p.
(2) Article 3(4) of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 restricts co-financing of joint actions by the Agency to Article 3(4) of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004.
(3) Agreement between the European Community, on the one hand, and the Swiss Confederation, on the other hand, and the Principality of Liechtenstein, on the other hand, between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation, on the other, establishing the modality of the participation of these States in the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation on the external borders of the Member States of the European Union (OJ L 344, 31.12.1990, p.
(4) The Court had already referred to this risk in paragraph 39 and Recommendation 4 of its Special Report No 15/2014 ăThe Boundary Fund contributed to more financial solidarity, but the measurement of results had to be improved and the added EU added value had to be created.
(5) Recommendation 1 of the Court's Special Report No 12/2016 ăEmployment of financial assistance by agencies: not always appropriate or demonstrably effective
(6) Article 53(2) of the Staff Regulations.
(7) European Support Office for Asylum (Malta), International Organisation for Migration (Belgrad) and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (Geneva).
(8) In addition, 192 posts for contract staff and seconded national experts were approved.
(9) Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Border and Coast Guard and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004, Regulation (EC) No 863/2007 and Council Decision 2005/267/EC (COM(2015) 671 final, 2015/0310(COD)).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/181 REPLY OF THE AGENCY REPRESENTATIONS ON THE AGENCY'S REPRESENTATION OF THE AGENCY REPRESENTATION AND THE AGENCY OF THE REPRESENTATION 3.30.10.
After Frontex had decided to terminate the contract, it was necessary to ensure the continuity of the services until the selection of a new contractor.
In view of the limited market for the services in question in the region (the very limited number of economic operators) it was considered the most appropriate way of the conclusion of a fortification agreement with the company which had cut off from the original tender for the selection of shipowning services as a second best supplier.
Therefore, in this case, this is not a continuation of a tendering procedure which has already been concluded.
The agency took into account in its decision that the company had already had experience in the provision of service for Frontex and that the relevant reporting had been in the first place positive; the offered service fulfilled all the minimum technical requirements.
The contractor agreed to provide the services on the same terms as were required and offered in the original tender.
In November 2017, an exemption was signed, in which the back cover for this decision was explained.
The 你berbr Wallpapering Agreement was signed by both parties in December 2017 and entered into force in January 2018.
The use of price as the sole criterion has been carefully assessed and has been based on the experience of Frontex over the past two years in the procurement of procurements for the provision of for the acquisition of stocks between the Greek islands and Turkey.
Due to the market restrictions in the geographical region  in the geographical region 
The services provided by Frontex were short journeys between the Greek islands and Turkey for the promotion of returnees in the framework of the Agreement between the EU and Turkey, ensuring that these actions were carried out in a safe environment and in full respect of fundamental rights.
In line with the last sentence of Article 31(2) of the Staff Regulations ( In order to take account of special needs of the institutions, the recruitment of officials can also take account of the labour market situation in the Union).
This decision was fully in line with the posts (which form part of the budget) and had never been questioned by the budgetary authorities.
Since March 2017, Frontex has not hired external applicants in higher grades than grade AST 4.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12.
The costs for inspection/maintenance work are defined as costs for all inspection/maintenance work during the entire service life of the equipment (...).
Sentence based on the data provided by the manufacturer or the maintenance site of the holder using the means.
This means that the hourly rate can be expressed in the form of a cost statement of the participants, either based on the manufacturer's cost estimates or on a price based on the actual costs incurred in previous years, or on cost estimates, using reference data for similar uses, in the case of a new means of use and of no data for data on use.
Invoices (or due to the amount of data of equivalent bookkeeping documents) can only be made available if the hourly price is based on the actual costs incurred in the reference year.
However, the recipient also has the ability to set an hourly rate on the basis of average reference prices if actually no invoices were issued.
This was the case with the selected payment, with the Islandisian K骗stenwacht providing Frontex with a projection of Islandisian maintenance costs. This was the case with the selected payment with the Islandisian Frontex.
The documents submitted by the Icelandic Coast Guard included the results of the ex-post controls carried out by an ex-post control team of Frontex in 2015 during a visit to the maintenance headquarters in Iceland, in which the team had the documents submitted by the Icelandic Coast Guard to base its calculation methods.
In the opinion of Frontex, therefore, the document submitted by Iceland provides sufficient reason for the approval of the issue.
The total amount of an hourly rate for all inspection/maintenance work of an aircraft with fixed wings results from three flights with special regulations: 的 Engine maintenance 的 The signed contract provided for a maximum amount of EUR 9 010 475.50; the payments are based on the hourly rate for the maintenance of an engine.
The Guardia Civil calculates Frontex according to the contractual specifications the hourly rate for the engine maintenance.
If less time is spent on engine maintenance, the overall ceiling is not reached.
Therefore, in this case, the hourly rate is not the total value of the contract, but the hourly rate.
DE C 434/182 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 34 General maintenance of the contract is a contract of a total price (not a framework contract) with monthly invoices for the individual works of the contractor.
The Agency assumes that, upon termination of the contract, the Guardia Civil will pay the total amount indicated in the contract.
The amount of an hourly price is calculated by dividing this total cost by the number of flight hours.
端砚 Delivery of spare parts 렛츠런팜 Gem۶§ The terms of the contract are, as above, a contract  of a total price (not a framework contract), with monthly invoices s are provided for the concrete work carried out by the contractor.
The Agency assumes that the Guardia Civil will pay the total amount indicated in the contract upon termination of the contract.
As a result of the above, the Agency cannot join the Court's risk assessment, since the Agency repays the Guardia Civil, on the basis of a contract of a total price of a contract, the result of which is a result of which is the result of the assessment which is the result of the assessment on the basis of specific invoices.
The current concept for operating performance measures, the current strategy and the resulting emergency plans were developed and updated on the basis of the legal framework and the structure, which were in force (annually) until the end of 2016.
Due to the extended mandate and the corresponding new structure, the emergency plans of the responsible authorities, in particular, are revised, since the organizational changes also require a complete overhaul of the underlying plans.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.30.15.
The main challenge is connected with the feasibility of commitments during a given year.
To avoid the risk of high cancellations, Frontex, in the fourth quarter of 2016, asked the clients to file their claims for final payment for the first half of the year, and for Frontex to carry forward their claims of costs for the current year (December 2016) or planned claims (January 2017) in the course of the 2016 operational activities for the first half of the year.
The main aim of these calls was to identify possible over-implementations, to reduce the corresponding SFD allocations and to re-use the funds in 2016.
Despite some positive results of this action, the transfer of funds was still high.
Therefore, despite a proper assessment of actual financial needs, Frontex needed additional funds to ensure the financial coverage of the investments in the autumn of 2016, since the cancelled funds of the terminated and ongoing operations were not available at that time.
The Agency has developed a simplified support scheme, which will be implemented from the 2018 operational cycle and which will be used, to a much higher extent, for increases of up to a year; and the Agency will not only step up the monitoring of the implementation of increases, but will also seek to reduce the cancellation of transfers.
Return Despite the repayment of funds to the Commission, the main objective of the Agency in the context of the Return Actions was achieved: it provided Member States with technical and operational support for return Actions and implemented specific measures in the pre-return period (to identify returnees, training/training, exchange of knowledge between Member States, etc.).
In 2017, the number of return actions coordinated by Frontex increased significantly: with an increase of 47% against the previous year, the number of migrants increased from 10,700 in 2016 to 14,200 in 2017.
This represents an overall 10% share of the total number of migrants actually returning from the EU to third countries (in 2014 the corresponding figure was 2%).
Recruitment Repayments of appropriations for staff expenditure were mainly due to difficulties and to the associated difficulties in recruitment procedures: protracted procedures, long deadlines, inadequate numbers of applicants and a lack of geographical balance due to a low correction coefficient.
Nevertheless, the Agency considers it to be a success that, within one year, over 250 new employees have been hired and hired.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/183 3.30.17.
In 2017, the Agency was the first year of implementation of the new ECC Regulation.
Article 75(13) obliges the Agency to include in its budget an operational financial shortfall of 4% of the budget of the operational budget to finance emergency operations for the purposes of border management (RABIT) and return operations.
On 1 October each year, at least one quarter of the year's pay should remain available in order to meet needs until the end of the year.
The required operational deficiencies were introduced so that during the year the agency can provide a certain reserve at any time for the implementation of immediate abatements for border protection purposes and for the cover of the necessary costs of such an immediate operation.
The European Parliament had amended the original text of the ECC Regulation proposed by the Commission by adding that by 1 October only one quarter of the had to remain available for the remaining three months of the year.
The ECC regulation is silent on what is to be done with the remaining three-quarters of the deficit after 1 October, this point is unclear.
The first transfer at the end of September was intended for the financing of reinforced operational measures in the air and at sea and the acquisition of own air monitoring services; the second transfer took place after 1 October.
The Board of Directors was informed in the monthly report on the transfers.
The Agency considers that the legislator should provide clarity.
The non-obligatory review had already been envisaged during the preparations for the Single Programming Document (SPD) 2017-2019.
In accordance with Article 75(3ff) of the ECC Regulation, the preparation of the SPD and the allocation of revenue and expenditure in the year N-2 was started and completed in the late autumn of the year N-1.
The ECC Regulation entered into force in October 2016.
The Agency had to plan the detailed annual work programme 2017 (as part of the SPD 2017-2019) for the whole year 2016 without the final result of the deliberations on the ECFC Regulation and thus without a clearly defined legal basis.
Towards the end of 2016, the SPD 2017-2019 was already completed and was available for approval to the Board of Directors, which fully supported the creation of the non-obligatory endowment in the light of the transition to the European Border and Coast Guard.
The Commission stated in its opinion on the SPD 2017-2019, (C92016)8722, in paragraph 63: ăThe Commission stated that emergency planning has become a guiding principle for the preparation of the annual work programme and that the Agency intends to provide almost 10 % of its operational budget for the so-called ‘operational flexibilit the (...)'.
In this context, the Commission calls on the Agency to set up two separate separate complaints within its budget, the first fully in line with Article 75, paragraph 13, of the ECC Regulation, and the second provides the Agency with the possibility to maintain the operational flexibility, in order to deal with emergencies which are not immediate.
Since the Agency publishes its job offers in English, while the EPSO requires translations into all EU official languages, this would mean that the costs would rise significantly, in view of the large number of jobs, and that the job placement procedure would be cancelled.
Frontex distributes information on vacancies on other vacancies, i.e. on the network of EU agencies, the Board of Directors, other agencies, Eurobrussels and social media.
Following the signing of an agreement with the Commission (DG DIGIT), the instrument will be used for the first time.
As a formal deadline for this instrument, Article 90(2) of the Procurement Directive, which the Commission is applying to the agencies, was established at the end of October 2018 and Frontex will comply with this deadline.
EN C 434/184 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under the MFR sub-heading 4 ⵓ Europe in the world 3.31.
EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING (ETF) INTRODUCTION 3.31.1.
The European Training Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the Foundation), based in Turin, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 (238) (recast Regulation (EC) No 1339/2008 (239).
The Commission goes along with this with the implementation of various vocational training programmes.
3.31.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Foundation (240).
Table Key figures for the Foundation 2017 Budget (million euro) 20 Total staff figures on 31 December (1) 125 (1) Staff comprise civil servants, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts.
DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE REFERRED TO TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL DECLARATION OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF 2016 21 130 JUSTICE 3.31.3.
We have a) audited the financial statements of the Foundation consisting of the financial statements (241) and the financial implementation reports (242) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the underlying financial statements in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Vernissigkeit der Abrechnungsführung Präfungsverscheidung zur Vernissigkeit der Abrechnungsführung 3.31.4. According to our assessment, the Foundation's annual accounts for the year ending December 31, 2017 represent the Foundation's annual and financial position as of December 31, 2017, the results of its annual accounts and cash flows, and the changes in the net annual accounts of the financial year ending December 31, 2017, in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's invoicing officer, which are based on internationally recognized accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 131, 23.5.1990, p. 1.
OJ L 354, 31.12.2008, p. 82.
(240) Further information on the Foundation's conditions and activities can be found on its website www.etf.europa.eu.
(241) The financial statements comprise the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in the net asset, and a summary of the financial statements and other statements.
(242) The reports on budget implementation include the projections summarising all revenue and expenditure projections, as well as interpretations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/185 Legality and order of the revenue of the European Union on the basis of the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion of the legality and order of the revenue of the annual accounts 3.31.5. According to our assessment, the revenue of the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and orderly in all essential respects.
Payments Payments against the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.31.6.
3.31.7.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.31.8.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented in 2017 a report on the progress of vocational education and training under the Turin Process in the Foundation (243). The Foundation drew up an action plan to address in areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM THE BENEFITS 3.31.9. The appendix contains an overview of the corrective actions taken on the basis of the Court's observations in previous years.
(243) The court did not carry out this inspection work.
C 434/186 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up of comments from previous years Court's comments An external evaluation of the Foundation was carried out on behalf of the Commission in 2016.
This was the first step in a cross-sectional evaluation of the four agencies in the field of employment, social affairs and integration(1).
The evaluators concluded that the significant restructuring of the Foundation had no significant negative effects since 2011 and that the internal and external stakeholders had a predominantly positive assessment, in particular in terms of strategy and effectiveness.
The management structure of the Foundation was considered efficient and effective.
The evaluation also stresses that the Foundation has improved its monitoring capacities since 2011, but that it has to present its capacities and achievements even more clearly.
Harmonisation and simplification of indicators in a single intervention logic and the use of a common terminology throughout the Foundation would contribute to an improvement.
The Foundation prepared a plan to implement the recommendations of the evaluators.
In his report on the financial statements of the Foundation in 2011, the Court stressed that the situation regarding the Foundation's financial statements is unsatisfactory and that there is a risk that the Foundation will not be able to continue to continue its activities.
The situation has remained unchanged since the consortium responsible for managing the building complex, which used part of the premises of the complex itself, was executed in 2011 and left the corresponding building empty§.
The Member State in which the Foundation is based urgently needs to find a solution to this problem.
The seat agreement guarantees adequate guarantees until 2027.
Year 2016 Status of correction (completed/in progress/outstanding/in progress/in progress) n.e.z. 2016 Finished (1) The other agencies to be evaluated are the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin), the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) and the European Centre for the Improvement of Vocational Training (Thessaloniki).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/187 REPLY OF THE FOUNDATION The Foundation takes note of the Court's report.
EN C 434/188 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under the MFF sub-heading 5 of.11.2018 Administration 3.32. 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal 30.11.2018 Official Journal 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Communities 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018
EURATOM SUPPLY AGENCY INTRODUCTION 3.32.1.
The Euratom Supply Agency (hereinafter ‘the Agency') based in Luxembourg was established in 1958(244).
Council Decision 2008/114/EC, Euratom(245) replaced the previously applicable Statute of the Agency.
The main task of the Agency is to ensure the regular supply of nuclear materials to EU users, in particular nuclear fuels, in accordance with the principle of equal access to supply sources through a common supply policy.
3.32.2.
From 2008 to 2011, the agency was not allocated its own budget to finance its activities.
From 2012 onwards, the Commission has allocated the Agency its own budget, but the budget covers only a small part of its expenditure.
3.32.3.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (246).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 0.1 Total staff numbers as at 31 December (1) 17 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract staff as well as seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
COLLECTION OF RELIABILITY OF THE COURT RE THE COLLECTION OF THE INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENT OF THE INDEPENDENCE IN THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL DEPARTMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENT IN 2016 0.1 17 REPRESENTATIVE JUDGMENT 3.32.4.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (247) and the annual accounts reports (248) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the financial accounts underlying the accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the Agency's annual and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its annual accounts and cash flows, as well as the changes in the net accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's invoicing officer, which are based on internationally recognised financial accounting grounds for the public sector, and are, as a whole, appropriate in all essential respects.
(244) OJ No.
OJ L 157, 15.6.2011, p. 1.
(246) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website http://ec.europa.eu/euratom/ index.html.
(247) The annual financial statements include the annual financial statements, the annual financial results, the cash flow statements, the net change table, and a summary of the financial statements and other financial statements.
(248) The reports on budget implementation include the reports summarising all revenue and expenditure projections, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/189 Legality and regularity of the income underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial ruling on the legality and regularity of the income underlying the annual accounts 3.32.6. According to our assessment the income underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Payments in respect of the respect of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.32.7.
EN C 434/190 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 AGENCY REPLY The Agency takes note of the Court's report.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/191 Self-financed agencies 3.33.
COMMUNITY SORTE INTRODUCTION (CPVO) 3.33.1.
The Community Plant Variety Office (hereinafter referred to as the Office), based in Angers (hereinafter referred to as the Office), was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 (249).
3.33.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Office (250).
Table Main figures for the Office 2017 Budget (million euro) 16 Total staff numbers on 31 December (1) 51 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
COMPENDIUM OF COMMUNITY PROVISIONS ON SOCIAL AFFAIRS OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL
The law on the liability of the accounting authority 3.33.4.
According to our assessment, the Office's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Office's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows and the changes in net revenue to the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in compliance with its financial rules and the accounting rules of the Commission, which are based on internationally recognized accounting principles for the public sector, in all relevant respects.
OJ L 227, 1.9.1994, p. 1.
(250) Further information on the Office's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.cpvo.europa.eu.
(251) The annual financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow account, the table of changes in net financial assets, and a summary of the financial statements and other financial statements.
(252) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarise all revenue and expenditure projections, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/192 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal jurisdiction and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Legal jurisdiction and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.33.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all material respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.33.6.
3.33.7.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.33.8.
In 2017, procedures for awarding and awarding grants were not adequately documented.
In procurement of low and medium value services, there were inconsistencies in the published contract documents, records of the learning of the pre-selection of candidates in low-value procurement procedures, and for the procurement procedures for the hiring of temporary workers the Office did not produce evaluation reports.
Moreover, the award criteria were not clearly stated.
As regards grants, the risk assessments were not appropriate and the expert opinions were not signed.
In accordance with its financial regulations (253), the Office should establish a uniform arrangement for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures.
The Office had not introduced any of these tools by the end of 2017.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM COMMENTS FROM ADVANCED YEARS 3.33.10. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(253) Article 74 Electronic management (ăe-Governmentundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundeundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundeundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundeundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundeundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundeundesundesundesundes-undesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundeundesundesundes-undesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundesundes
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/193 ANNEX Follow-up of comments from previous years comments of the Court of Justice F𡦂r uses the largest part of its payments the Office uses for electronic payments.
The invoicer or his two deputies can sign the payments electronically.
As of 31 December 2015, the costs outstanding as 90 days (mainly annual fees) amounted to 240 766 euro(1).
The Office did not take advantage of all the possibilities provided for in its financial regulation in order to recover outstanding amounts, such as foreclosure (2). At EUR 788 540 and 40 % (2015: EUR 395 882 and 28 % respectively), the amount of committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) carried over to the following financial year was high.
These transfers mainly concern current expenditure (EUR 284 423), IT projects (EUR 253 483) and costs for expenditure and evaluations (EUR 137 098), for which services are partly provided in 2017 or charged only in this year.
The cancellation rate of the funds transferred from 2015 to the following year for payments was also high for Title II with 17 % (2015: 20%), indicating that budgeting needs to be improved.
Periodic external performance evaluations are not required by the Office's statement of grounds.
While the Office or the Commission has carried out ad hoc evaluations of specific issues, the Office, together with the Commission, should undertake, at least every five years, external performance evaluations, as most other agencies do.
EN C 434/194 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE OFFICE 3.33.8.
It agrees with the Court that the documentation should be improved and points out that the necessary assessments, evaluations and opinions have been carried out or prepared as part of the respective procedures.
3.33.9.
The Office concluded a contractual agreement with the European Commission before the end of the year on the provision of the tool for the electronic submission of offers.
At that time, there were no tenders that met the conditions for using the tool, and the use of the tool was not mandatory at that time.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/195 3.34.
The Office of the European Union for Intellectual Property (hereinafter referred to as the Office of the European Union for Intellectual Property (hereinafter referred to as the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHIM)), which ran until March 23, 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (OHIM), was established in 1993.
Its original regulation was last amended by Regulation (EU) 2017/1001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (254).
The core nature of the Office, which is based in Alicante, is the registration of Union trade marks and registered Community designs, which are legally valid throughout the EU.
3.34.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Office (255).
Table Main figures for the Office 2017 Budget (million euros) (1) 401 Total staff on 31 December 995 (1) The figures for the Office 2017 include the figures for unforeseen events.
RELIABILITY CLOTHING OF THE COURT  都 REFERENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENT CLOTHING OF THE INDEPENDENCE IN 2016 421 910 IN THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL 3.34.3. We have: a) the Office's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(256), and the reports on the implementation of the budget (257) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts, pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.34.4. According to our assessment, the Office's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Office's annual and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows as well as the changes in the net accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all the essential respects as a whole.
The President
(255) For more information on the Office's responsibilities and activities, please consult the following Web address: https://euipo.europa.eu.
(256) The financial statements include the financial statements, the financial statements, the cash flow statement, the table of the changes in net income, and a summary of financial statements and other statements.
(257) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure projections, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/196 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Jurisdiction of the jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.34.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is for all the main purposes legal and orderly.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.34.6.
3.34.7.
In 2017, the Office cancelled EUR 3.2 million and 15.9% of the commitment appropriations carried over from the financial year 2016.
The Office continued to use fixed prices for services (258).
The prices used in each service are based on unit prices (price/persons' day, etc.) set out in framework agreements and the number of units used by each service.
The Office shall ensure that the unit prices are correctly applied in the case of the prices offered by the contractors.
3.34.10.
However, the list of services to be provided in connection with the framework agreement was not exhaustive in a framework agreement with a value of 80 million euros on general consulting, audit and project management services, as well as studies.
In view of the evaluation of the offers, the service descriptions included two business cases relating to the management of a project and a multi-project programme.
This framework agreement is a mixed multi-frame agreement, which is partly a cascade procedure (general advisory and project management services) and partly a renewed call for competition (prs and studies).
The stored units were predetermined by the Office, but the tenderers were asked to determine the distribution between the different profiles.
The framework agreement and also some of the associated individual agreements were therefore negotiated on the basis of unit prices, types of profiles and quality, but not on the expected number of number of units, which is another essential element in the calculation of a fixed price agreement.
3.34.11.
The framework agreement was awarded a single contract with a fixed price of EUR 145 447.50, which primarily concerns the provision of support services for the execution of a document management project.
The personal days required for the provision of these services cannot be derived from either the business cases described in the service descriptions or from the description contained in the individual contract.
A fixed price as set out in this individual order is therefore at risk of the service being provided in the most economical way.
3.34.12.
If not all the conditions for the provision of services for the award of the framework agreement can be established, the individual contracts are more appropriate to reopen to competition among several contractors of the framework agreement.
CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.34.13. The Annex gives an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(258) See also paragraph 21 of the previous year's report.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/197 EN Year 2016 State of adoption of the correction (completed/in progress/outstanding/n. e. e. e. e.) Completed (3) ANNEX Follow-up to observations from previous years Court observations The Office's budget implementation rate was low at 89%, suggesting an inaccurate estimate of its expenditure in the 2016 budget.
As a result of the most recent changes to the Ordinance and the Office's financial regulations, it has become more important that the Office, if necessary by means of a amending budget, prepares a precise budget, since the budgetary budget-related mechanisms, including the allocation of financial resources to a more precise financial resources fund and the associated compensation mechanism, (1), are now associated with the budget.
In 2014, the Office launched an invitation to tender for a four-year framework contract covering an estimated market volume of EUR 30 million for the procurement of consultancy services covering a wide range of activities, including consultancy, project management, general advisory services and studies.
However, the procurement procedure and the subsequent use of the framework agreement were partly not adequately managed.
The objectives and the activities to be carried out had not been defined in sufficient detail to ensure that the volume of the framework agreement had been carried out in sufficient detail.
Thus, the credits of the framework agreement were exhausted after only two years and six months.
In addition, despite the variety of services to be procured and the very different costs per activity, no lots of lots had been used.
Using lots would encourage smaller enterprises to participate in the low-value process.
Finally, the price competition was neutralised and the dependentness of the contractor was increased because, using the framework agreement, fixed price offers were requested by a single contractor.
The Office should seek to conclude agreements with several suppliers and, if necessary, to call again for competition.
The Office's Ordinance stipulates that the translations required for the Office's work are made by the Translation Centre for the European Union (CdT), which means that the Centre's principal client office is the Centre's office.
The Office is increasingly using internal versions such as linguistic and translation memory as well as additional software.
These instruments are designed to improve the cost-effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the Office.
However, from the perspective of the European Union, the current situation could result in a doubling of the expenditure and the corresponding costs.
2016 In progress (4) 2016 In progress (1) Article 89 (1) of its financial regulations, the Office establishes an action fund, the financial resources of which shall be the continuation of the Office's activity and the exercise of its responsibilities for one year, i.e. the amount of which shall correspond to the resources set out in Titles 1, 2 and 3 of the Office's budget.
(2) Article 139(4) and (6) of the Decree of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank and the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Communities and of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Communities and of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Communities and of the European Central Bank of the European Communities of the European Central Bank of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Communities and of the European Central Bank of the European Communities of the European Central Bank of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Communities and of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Communities of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Communities of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank and the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Communities of the European Central Bank of the European Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European and of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Central Bank of the European Communities of the European Central and of the European Central Bank of the European Communities of the European Communities of the European Central Bank of the European Communities of the European Communities
(3) In 2017, the Office's budget implementation rate was 97%.
(4) See point 3.34.8.
EN C 434/198 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE OFFICE'S COMMENTS ON THE BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.34.8.
While the cancellation rate is just over 15%, the amount of cancelled committed transfers of EUR 3.2 million is the lowest of the last ten years (since 2008).
The Office continues to work with national authorities to reduce the cancelled transfers by means of interim reports on implementation and half-year implementation with reinforced control measures, which constitute an integral part of each new cooperation agreement.
Further measures have also been implemented internally, such as awareness-raising measures through coaching, training, information notes and meetings with financial actors.
In addition, the Office had already expected the level of cancelled transfers to exceed 15%, and had proactively taken additional measures to reduce transfers to the next year.
The Office took note of the Court's observations.
In advance it should be noted that the scenarios described in the procurement documents for the future uses of the contract were aimed at being as vivid and representative as possible and were not expected of them as to be in the detail of each specific contract.
As regards the adequacy of the re-opening of the competition mechanisms and as stated in the Office's response to the 2016 audit, this concept has already been incorporated in the revised framework agreement on audits and studies.
The Office has compared the added value of this mechanism with the related administrative costs and, given the Office's intensive use of consultancy and project management services, has concluded that this is not the most efficient way of managing the latter types of services.
Taking into account the fact that the current framework agreement is valid until 2020, the extension of this mechanism to the advisory and project management services would require a new call at the time, which the Office does not consider appropriate.
In the existing cascade system for consulting and project management services, the Office repeats the answer to the 2016 audit for the use of the fixed price procedures.
The main reason for choosing this option is that proceedings against the Office before the Spanish labour courts are against the Office in relation to the non-rightful transfer of employees, which are inter alia related to the use of the former ăTime and Means-regulation.
In the case of the fixed price procedure (within the cascade system), the Office has experience in the evaluation of offers.
The EUIPO has set up a specific team, which is able, on the basis of previous practice and expertise, to include which resources are required to perform the tasks behind the fixed-price performance.
However, we believe that the Court's concerns can be addressed through other contractual methods than the ăfixed prize, for example through the ăQuoted Time and Means methods, a method that could, in the future, draw the Office in the process of individual cases.
The Office undertakes to provide further information and to document its own estimates of resources required to carry out the tasks of fixed-price services before issuing the request for information to provide proof of the above-mentioned experience of the Office in advance.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/199 3.35.
SRB INTRODUCTION 3.35.1.
The Single Resolution Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Single Resolution Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Single Resolution Mechanism (hereinafter referred to as the Single Resolution Mechanism), which is based in Brussels, was created by Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 (hereinafter referred to as the Single Resolution Mechanism (hereinafter referred to as the Single Resolution Mechanism) (259).
3.35.2.
The Committee is responsible for the management of the Single Resolution Fund (hereinafter referred to as the Fund), which was established by the SRM Regulation and is intended to act as a support for the Single Resolution Mechanism.
3.35.3.
The Committee has its own budget, which is not part of the EU budget.
3.35.4.
The table contains the most important figures for the Committee (260).
Table Main figures on the Committee Budget (million euro) Part I (Committee's administrative budget) Part II (Fund's budget) 2017 113 6 462 2016 65 11 800 182 Total staff on 31 December (1) (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Committee.
OJ L 346, 30.12.2013, p. 1.
(260) Further information on the Committee's tasks and activities is available on its website www.srb.europa.eu.
(261) The annual financial statements include the annual financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the net changes table, as well as a summary of financial statements and other results. (262) The financial execution reports include the reports that summarise all revenue and expenditure statements, as well as statements.
EN C 434/200 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Judicial ruling on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.35.7.
Payments Jurisdiction on the legality and regularity of payments on the basis of the annual accounts 3.35.8.
Stressing a point of view 3.35.9.
Without questioning its judgements in paragraphs 3.35.6-3.35.8, the Court would like to stress that the contributions to the Fund will be calculated on the basis of the information forwarded to the Committee by the credit institutions (and some investment firms).
The Court drew on this information when examining the Committee's revenue, but did not pay attention to the Committee's powers.
The SRM Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure the reliability of the information.
In addition, the Committee cannot provide details of the contributions per credit institution calculated on the basis of a risk assessment, as the calculations are restricted and include confidential information on other credit institutions.
3.35.10.
Administrative complaints or judicial proceedings between credit institutions and national resolution authorities and the Committee relating to contributions to the Fund and to the Court of Justice of the European Union brought to the Court of Justice of the European Union complaints of former shareholders and creditors brought by Banco Popular Espa by S.A. following the adoption of the resolution concept, the Court, in its examination, omitted to affect the position of the parties in these proceedings.
Detailed information can be found in paragraph 8 of the Committee's annual accounts.
3.35.11.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment on the judgment of the Court. COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.35.12.
The Committee did not ensure that payments were made within the time limit.
About 28% of the payments (9.5% of the total payments) to contractors and reimbursements to experts and employees were made on completion.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF ACCOUNTS 3.35.13.
Article 92(4) of the SRM Regulation the Court of Auditors reports in particular on the contingent liabilities arising for the Committee, the Council and the Commission from the performance of their tasks under this Regulation.
According to the preliminary procurement plan in the annex to the 2017 Work Programme, 16 different services were to be provided, but, in fact, only legal advice was provided.
Furthermore, the estimated value of the contract for the provision of legal advice in the previous procurement plan was EUR 3 million, while the actual value of the contract was EUR 29 million.
This indicates that procurement planning is inadequate.
3.35.15.
Of the projects for the provision of legal advice in the amount of 29 million euros, 20 million euros were awarded in the form of eleven negotiated procedures without prior publication.
In addition, two EUR 3 million grants were also awarded for advice and support for economic and financial evaluation (as envisaged in the 2016 annual work programme) in the form of such a procedure.
A more or less use of such procedures leads to the restriction of competition.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/201 3.35.16.
The Committee should adopt a single regulation on electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (263).
The Commission is currently developing a total IT tool, which covers all stages of public procurement procedures, which has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of procurement notices documents in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015) and has not yet launched any of these tools by the end of 2017.
3.35.17.
The Committee publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but generally not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), thereby complying with the principle of transparency, of publicity, and the citizens of the European Union were obliged to consult the opportunity to advertise the various European institutions and agencies.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.35.18. The annex gives an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(263) Article 75 of the SRB Financial Provisions of 25 March 2015.
C 434/202 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations In 2015, the Committee took up its activity and gradually established its internal control environment.
However, the development, adoption or implementation of a number of essential procedures and controls are still pending, with the exception of the risk management and control strategy, the standards for internal control, the regular evaluation of the proper functioning of the internal control system, and the strategy for combating fraud.
The accounting officer has not yet validated the accounting system of the Committee.
Of the available funds, only 62% (2015: 67%) and 35 million euros (2015: 15 million euros) (1) were spent.
The committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) for the following financial year amount to EUR 3.1 million and 35% (2015: EUR 3.3 million and 70% respectively) of the total committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure).
They mainly concern IT devices issued in 2016 (1.9 million euros) and security services not yet invoiced and paid in this year (0.6 million euros).
The committed appropriations committed for the following financial year for Title III of the budget (operational expenditure) amount to EUR 5.3 million and 66 % (2015: EUR 1.6 million and 40 % respectively) of the committed appropriations.
They mainly concern services provided by the European Central Bank (1.9 million euros), legal services (1.5 million euros) and IT services (1.3 million euros), for which payments are to be made in 2017.
Between July and October 2016, the Committee committed EUR 2 million to the procurement of legal services, which were not part of the annual work programme or the budget, nor was a financing decision adopted prior to the budgetary commitment.
By applying the negative interest rate on the deposit rate of the European Central Bank in 2016, the Fund paid negative interest rate of EUR 24 million (2) to the national central banks.
This reduced the amount of cumulative amounts of future transactions that could be executed.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/203 EN Court of Auditors' comments The Committee's recruitment procedures must be more detailed, set clear minimum figures to be achieved by the candidates, and define more precisely the tasks and the powers of the members of the Selection Committee.
The implementation rate in 2016 2017 was 71% and 71 million euros respectively.
50 million euros in 2017.
EN C 434/204 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE COMMITTEE 3.35.9.
The annual contributions to the Fund collected in advance shall be calculated on the basis of the information provided to the Committee by credit institutions and certain investment firms.
Although the SRM Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework that ensures the reliability of the information, the SRF is paying any attention to this aspect.
The data provided are provided on the basis of the data provided by the institutions in the previous year and the data contained in the ECB database.
Deviations are reported to the national resolution authorities who are asked to clarify the facts. This made it possible for the SRF to improve the quality of the data in the previous cycles.
Furthermore, the Committee cannot provide any details of any pre-investigation-based contributions per institution, as the calculations are of limited nature and, as a result, confidential information about other institutions would be disclosed.
However, the SRF has disclosed the calculation method as well as detailed calibrations to ensure transparency and cooperation.
3.35.12.
In 2017, the capacity of the financial team was not sufficient to ensure the efficient handling of all financial transactions, including bills, due to a combination of unexpectedly high workload, a regrettable staff turnover in the financial team, and general difficulties in finding experienced staff.
Since the fourth quarter of 2017, the team's capacity has been strengthened again and measures have been taken to ensure the timely processing of invoices.
By now, almost 98 % of the invoices have been settled within the deadlines set in 2018.
Any late payment case will now be examined closely to make further improvements in this area.
3.35.14.
The SRB's 2017 procurement plan was adopted in 2016, when the Committee was only in its second full-year in existence.
At that time, no resolution cases had yet been dealt with and the Agency had little experience on the basis of which its procurement plan could be drawn up.
As a new agency, the SRB could use various interinstitutional frameworks managed by the European Commission.
This led to the fact that several procurement procedures to be initiated by the SRB in 2017 were ultimately not implemented.
In 2018, the implementation of the procurement plan will be closely monitored and additional efforts will be made to improve the planning of procurement procedures.
In 2017, the SRB spent a total of EUR 20 million on providing legal advice.
Almost all negotiated procedures without prior publication of a contract notice concerned disputes (eight out of ten out of a total of EUR 10.9 million) which did not fall within the scope of Directive 2014/24/EU.
This also includes a large number of disputes brought before the ECJ after the first resolution procedure of the SRB.
The SRB therefore does not believe that it uses such methods in aberm that way.
As regards the economic and financial valuation of two of the two cases in 2017, the re-implementation of a competition proved unsuccessful. Therefore, the SRB was forced to resort to negotiating procedures.
Due to the subject matter of the contract and the need for the highest level of confidentiality, the contract notice was not published in accordance with the applicable rules.
3.35.16.
The online access to tender documents has been available to economic operators since the Committee was established on the SRB website and was fully integrated into the electronic tender platform since the end of 2017.
In June 2017, the SRB requested that the electronic submission of offers also be made use of. However, the Commission has not yet gained access.
The SRB has established that such publications on the EPSO website do not increase the quality or the number of applications and that they are also very expensive due to the mandatory translation of the job advertisements.
Therefore, the SRB publishes its job advertisements preferably on its own website as well as on EU_CV online and LinkedIn, and informs its stakeholders (central banks, finance ministries, national authorities, other EU agencies and permanent representations) about this.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/205 3.36. CENTRE OF TRANSLATION FOR THE CENTRE OF THE EUROPEAN UNION (CDT) INTRODUCTION 3.36.1.
The Translation Centre for the bodies of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the Centre), also based in Luxembourg, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2965/94 (264).
The Centre's task is to provide the institutions and bodies of the European Union that use the Centre's services to provide translation services to the institutions and bodies of the European Union that use the Centre's services.
3.36.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Centre (265).
Table Main figures for the 2017 Centre Budget (million euro) 49 Total staff on 31 December (1) 215 (1) Personnel comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: data provided by the Centre.
Declaration of interdependence of the Court of Justice of the European Parliament and of the Council, 2016 51 225 Statement of the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Council of the European Communities 3.36.3.
(a) the financial statements of the Centre, consisting of the financial statements (266) and the financial implementation reports (267) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and legality of the financial statements underlying the financial statements in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3,36.4. According to our assessment, the Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the Centre's annual and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its annual accounts and its cash flows, as well as the changes to the net budget for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all material matters.
OJ L 314, 7.12.1994, p. 1.
(265) Further information about the Centre's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.cdt.europa.eu.
(266) The annual financial statements comprise the annual financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of the changes in the net income, as well as a summary of the financial statements and other statements.
(267) The reports on budget implementation include the reports, which summarise all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/206 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Judicial opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.36.5. According to our opinion, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.36.6.
Note 3.36.7.
The Centre's task is to provide the EU's agencies and agencies with translation services which they need for their services, and the Centre's task is to provide the EU institutions, which can use the Centre's services.
In the framework regulations of most agencies and bodies, it is planned that they will use the Centre's translation services.
Some agencies and agencies (which more than half of the Centre's revenue goes to) are increasingly resorting to in-house opportunities or other alternatives to the other.
However, this means that the capacity of the Centre will not be used to the maximum, that there will be a duplication in the development of systems and the running costs at European level, and that the business model and business development of the Centre will be the model used.
In 2017, an external assessment of the adequacy of the Centre's business model was carried out.
The final evaluation report had not yet been adopted at the time of the Court's audit (268).
3.36.8.
COMMENTS ON THE EXISTENCE OF THE CURRENCY OF ACCOUNTS 3.36.9.
The agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (269) (270).
Since the EU institutions have also set a target for this, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT system, covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
By the end of 2017, the Centre had introduced the electronic invoicing for certain procedures, but not the electronic tendering and the electronic submission of tenders.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM PREVIOUS YEARS 3.36.11. The annex gives an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years.
(268) The Court did not publish this evaluation work.
(269) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(270) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/207 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations The Centre has not yet adopted a business continuity plan and does not adopt the standard for internal control No. 10 (1).
In 2016, the cash and short-term bank deposits of the Centre decreased to 34.2 million euros (end of 2015: 38.3 million euros). Reserves decreased to 31.1 million euros (end of 2015: 34 million euros). This decline is the result of a budget approach aiming to reduce the surplus accumulated in previous years (2).
Year 2015 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/in progress/outgoing/in progress/in progress/in progress (1) (2) The standards for internal control of the Centre are based on the relevant standards of the Commission.
This trend continued in 2017.
EN C 434/208 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE CENTRE 3.36.9.
The accountant is independent in the performance of his accounting duties.
This independence is ensured by the fact that it is appointed by the Board of Directors and its position is unlimited.
In order to improve the independence of the accountant, he will, from 2018 on, be directly on the accountant's duties to the Director of the Centre, and his annual evaluation will be carried out by the Director.
3.36.10.
The Centre will deploy these two instruments developed by the Commission from October 2018.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/209 Commission executive agencies 3.37.
EXECUTIVATION EDUCATION, AUDIOVISUAL AND CULTURE (EACEA) INTRODUCTION 3.37.1.
The Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Brussels, was set up in 2013/776/EU to repeal Decision 2009/336/EC(272).
The Agency is responsible for the management of programmes decided by the Commission in the fields of education, audiovisual and culture, and for the detailed implementation of technical projects.
3.37.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (273).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 50 Total staff on 31 December (1) 436 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary staff and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL'S EXAMINATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENT PROCUREMENT PRESENTATION IN 2016 49 442 PRESENTATION OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT 3.37.3.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (274) and the budget implementation reports (275) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the annual accounts of the European Union under Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.37.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the Agency's annual and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its annual accounts and its cash flows, as well as the changes to the net annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all its essential matters as a whole.
OJ L 343, 19.12.2013, p. 46.
OJ L 101, 21.4.2009, p. 26.
(273) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on the Agency's website www.eacea.ec.europa.eu.
(274) The annual financial statements include the financial statements, the financial statements, the financial statements, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in the net financial statements, and a summary of the underlying accounting and other statements.
(275) The reports on budget implementation include the reports summarising all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/210 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal jurisdiction and regularity of the revenue and revenue underlying the annual accounts Legal jurisdiction and regularity of the revenue and expenditure underlying the annual accounts 3.37.5. According to our assessment, the revenue and expenditure underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are, in all essential respects, legal and regular.
Payments Payments in respect of payments underlying the financial statements 3.37.6.
3.37.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.37.8.
The head of the agency's accountant is the head of the Finance, Accounting and Programming Department.
In the context of the Financial Regulation, the executive agencies should establish a uniform framework for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (276). As a uniform framework also applies for EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT context, covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.37.10.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented reports on the management of recovery orders for money orders due to competition disputes (including collateral for money orders due to competition disputes) and recovery orders in the context of the Commission's correction capacity and on phase 1 of the grant management in relation to the Erasmus+ and Creative Europe programmes (277).
The Agency prepared an action plan to address areas of potential need for improvement.
(276) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic administration (ăe-Government-). (277) The Court did not carry out this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/211 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years observations from the Court In 2016, 46 IT articles with a total purchase value of less than 22 000 euros could not be found in the annual inventory of the Agency's value of assets, which indicates M炼ngel in securing the value of assets.
At EUR 2.3 million and 47 % respectively (2015: EUR 2.8 million and 50 %), the rate of the committed appropriations for Title III for the following financial year (support for the operational activities of the Agency) was high.
These transfers mainly concern current invoices of projects (0.8 million euros) and IT services (0.9 million euros) commissioned in 2016 but not yet invoiced at the end of the year, or which will not be delivered until 2017.
Year 2016 2016 Statement of corrective measures (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
EN C 434/212 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF AGENCY 3.37.8. The Agency considers that its accountant has a high degree of independence.
The appointment by the Steering Committee and the appointment by the Committee of the function of the Committee should be borne in mind that the invoicing officer of the EACEA as seconded senior Commission officer is by and large much less independent than the invoicing officer in the field.
This constellation means that the seconded accountant is part of the organizational structure of the parent DG, in our case DG EAC.
The Agency will analyse the Court's comment, taking into account potential measures taken by other EU agencies and/or the Commission's organisational guidelines.
As the Agency's top management level implements changes, the matter is submitted to the future Director for examination.
3.37.9.
The Agency follows the Commission's e-procurement project strictly.
It plans to start the e-tendering in July 2018, which will follow the procedure for the electronic submission of tenders (e-submission).
3.37.10.
Both measures have now been sent to the Internal Audit Service and have been accepted by the Internal Audit Service.
It should be noted that all planned measures have now been implemented.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/213 3.38.
EXECUTIVE AGENTS FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES (EASME) INTRODUCTION 3.38.1.
The Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency", also known as "EASME"), based in Brussels, was set up by Commission Decision 2013/771/EU (278) for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2024.
Its main task is to manage EU measures in the fields of research and innovation, competitiveness of SMEs, environmental, climate and maritime policies in close cooperation with seven Commission Directorates-General.
3.38.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (279).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euros) 43 Total staff as at 31 December (1) 434 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff as well as seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION OF THEECLARATION OF THE THE COURTS RELATING TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THEDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE IN 2016 36 417 REPRESENTATIVE JUDGMENT 3.38.3.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts consisting of the annual accounts (280) and the annual accounts reports (281) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.38.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represents the Agency's annual and financial position as of 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows as well as the changes in the net revenue and net revenue for the year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's invoicing officer, which are based on internationally recognized accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects as well.
OJ L 341, 18.12.2013, p. 73.
(279) Further information about the Agency's Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.ec.europa.eu/easme/.
(280) The financial statements include the annual financial statements, the annual financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the financial statements and other explanations.
(281) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure projections, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/214 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue and regularity of the revenue and regularity of the revenue and the revenue of the European Union and of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue and regularity of the revenue and the revenue of the European Union and of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue of the European Union
Payments Judgments on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.386.
3.38.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.38.8.
In the course of the annual review of the EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the hierarchical position and the independence of the auditors, as well as the aspect of the timely (new) validation of the accounting systems.
The head of the agency's accountant is the head of the financial department.
The Court therefore considers it necessary to strengthen the independence of the accountant by directing it to the Director (administrative interests) and to the Agency's Steering Committee (functional concerns).
3.38.9.
In addition, the Agency's mandate was significantly expanded in 2014: it now manages EU measures in various areas in cooperation with seven Directorates-General of the Commission.
Despite significant changes in the Agency's procedures and a significant increase in its budget and staff, a revalidation of the accounting system was the latest in 2012.
In accordance with the Financial Regulation, the executive agencies should establish a harmonised definition for the electronic storage and electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (282). Since a corresponding definition also applies for the EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview, covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents for procurement notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.38.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service issued audit reports in 2017 on the management of COSME by the Agency and on the management procedures of the Agency's Human Resources Department (283).
The Agency prepared action plans to take measures in areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARs 3.38.12. The annex provides an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years. (282) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(283) The court did not carry out this examination work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/215 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations The amount of committed appropriations carried over to the following financial year was high with Title II (administrative expenditure) of EUR 1 250 000 and 33% (2015: EUR 998 324 and 14% respectively) as well as with Title III (support to the operational activities of the Agency) of EUR 2 550 000 and 62 % (2015: EUR 4 million and 65% respectively).
In Title II, the transfers were mainly linked to rent (0.6 million euros) and the purchase of hardware, which had not yet been delivered at the end of the year (0.5 million euros).
The transfers under Title III concerned the evaluation and monitoring of the LIFE programme by external experts (EUR 1.5 million), ongoing ex-post inspections (EUR 0.5 million) and IT services (EUR 0.5 million), which were commissioned in 2016, but were only partially delivered at the end of the year and were not yet invoiced.
The Agency may adopt separate budgets in order to better reflect the multi-annual nature of the activities and the inevitable inflection between contract signings, deliveries and payments.
The high cancellation rate of appropriations for Title I (Staff expenditure) from the previous year (EUR 32000 or 8.3%) shows that the expenditure has been overestimated.
Year 2016 2016 Balance of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
EN C 434/216 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.38.8.
The Agency considers that its internal control system provides sufficient security to ensure effective separation of duties and the independence of the auditor.
The accounting officer was appointed by the Steering Committee.
The Steering Committee shall adopt the provisional and final accounts, the administrative budget and any further changes.
The principal accounting officer's services to be provided shall be approved by the Director.
In the Agency's view, a change in the current reporting and organisational structure would not have a significant impact on the risks and controls of the accounting rules.
However, the Agency will monitor the situation closely and adjust the organisational and reporting requirements where necessary.
3.38.9. The accounting team started the validation of the accounting systems in December 2017 and will complete them in 2018.
3.38.10.
In the field of procurement, the agency has introduced electronic invoicing for certain IT providers since 2013, including complete electronic processing and an automated interface to the ABAC workflow.
From 2018, electronic invoicing will be further promoted and will gradually be applied by other suppliers, depending on their infrastructure and electronic equipment.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/217 3.39.
Executive Agency of the European Research Council (ERCEA) INTRODUCTION 3.39.1.
The Executive Agency of the European Research Council (hereinafter the Agency), which is based in Brussels, was set up by Commission Decision 2008/37/EC (284).
The Agency was set up for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2017 to manage the specific programme for the Seventh Framework Programme.
Council Decision 2013/743/EU(285) gave the Agency the role of implementing agency responsible for all aspects of the administrative and practical implementation of the Horizon 2020 research programme. It implements the measures of the specific objective of strengthening the pioneering research through the activities of the European Research Council (286) of Part I of the programme.
3.39.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Agency (287).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euros) 47 Total staff figures on 31 December (1) 477 (1) Staff include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION BY THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, comprising the annual accounts (288) and the financial implementation reports (289) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the financial statements underlying the financial statements, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending on 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's annual and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows as well as the changes of the net assets for the financial year ending on 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects, as appropriate.
Council Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of 6 December 2012 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2012, p. 1).
(285) OJ No.
(286) Implementation period 2014-2020.
(287) Further information on the Agency's capabilities and capabilities can be found on its website www.erc.europa.eu.
(288) The annual financial statements include the annual report, the annual report on financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net income, and a summary of the financial statements and other statements.
(289) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews, which summarize all revenue and expenditure projections, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/218 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Judicial opinion of the legal status and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.39.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending December 31, 2017 is legal and regular for all essential matters.
Payments Payments in respect of payments in respect of the accounts in respect of the legality and regularity of payments in respect of the accounts 3.39.6.
3.39.7.
In line with the Financial Regulation, the executive agencies should establish a common framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (290). Since a framework also applies for the EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing an IT summary, covering all phases of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011), and electronic submission of tenders (2015), the Agency had introduced electronic tenders and electronic invoicing for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not electronic submission of tenders.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.39.9.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a 2017 review report on the procedures for the conclusion of FP7 (291) projects (292).
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.39.10. The annex gives an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(290) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (ăe-Government/2012). Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012.
(291) Seventh EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development.
(292) The court did not have these testing works.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/219 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years C 434/219 EN ANNEX Court's comments The opening and evaluation reports prepared by the European Commission's Procurement Committee and the Agency's Recruitment Committee do not give a complete and practical picture of the actual procedures.
The inadequate reports challenged the transparency of these procedures.
In its September 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the Agency has taken a number of strategic and operational measures to improve the recruitment, retention, and allocation of its staff.
In this context, the IAS concluded that the Agency has designed and implemented an appropriate human resources management system that enables it to employ a competent and committed workforce in a way that ensures the achievement of its objectives.
While no critical or particularly serious problems were identified, the Agency and IAS agreed on an action plan to further improve this procedure in certain areas.
At EUR 1.3 million or 40% (2015: EUR 1.5 million or 43%), the rate of committed appropriations for Title III (operational expenditure) for the following financial year was still high, mainly due to the year-long external audits and communication measures.
The high rate of transfer is in contradiction with the budgetary principle of sovereignty.
Year 2016 2016 2016 Amount of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
EN C 434/220 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 ANSWER OF THE AGENCY 3.39.8. Electronic submission of tenders is currently limited to open procedures (the threshold is set by Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement, and in 2017 amounted to EUR 135 000).
Since the Agency did not initiate such a procedure in 2017, and this will not be the case in 2018, the Agency was not in a position to initiate the electronic submission of tenders in 2017.
Moreover, the use of electronic submissions of offers in accordance with the Commission's Roadmap will become mandatory for all EU institutions and agencies at the end of 2018.
Therefore, the start-up process was started in 2018, and the agency will be able to deploy the electronic submission of offers before the end of the year.
In the case of negotiated procedures, the Agency will use the electronic submission of tenders once the Commission has integrated this option into the module.
3.39.9.
According to the Action Plan to be prepared by the Agency and approved by the IAS regarding RP7 projects, all measures were implemented by the ERCEA and submitted to the Internal Audit Service (IAS) for follow-up on 9 April 2018.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/221 3.40.
EXECUTIVE GENTURE OF INNOVATION AND NETWORK (INEA) INTRODUCTION 3.40.1.
The Executive Agency for Innovation and Networks (INEA), for which the Agency is based in Brussels, was established by Commission Decision 2013/801/EU (293) and replaces the Executive Agency for the Trans-European Transport Network and is the successor to it.
The Agency was set up for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2024 for the management of the Union's actions in the area of the Fazilit to ăConnecting Europe, the Research and Innovation programme ăHorizont 2020, the trans-European transport network and the Marco Polo programme.
3.40.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (294).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euros) 24 Total staff at 31 December (1) 249 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION BY THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENT OF THE INDEPENDENT DEPARTMENT OF THE DEPARTMENT IN 2016 22 225 JUSTICE 3.40.3.
(a) the annual accounts of the Agency, consisting of the annual accounts (295) and the annual accounts ( (296) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the annual accounts for the financial year, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's annual and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows as well as the changes in the net year for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects as a whole.
OJ L 354, 31.12.2013, p. 1.
(294) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.ec.europa.eu/inea.
(295) The annual accounts comprise the annual accounts, the annual financial results, the cash flow statement, the net change table, and a summary of the financial accounts and other accounts statement.
(296) The reports on budget implementation include the reports summarising all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/222 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.40.5. According to our evaluation, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Payments in respect of the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.40.6.
3.40.7.
The following comments do not call into question the Court's judgment on the Court's judgment. COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMIC ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND ON THE BENEFIT 3.40.8.
With regard to the Financial Regulation, the Executive Agencies should establish a common understanding for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (297).
Since a corresponding standard also applies to the EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing an overall IT programme covering all stages of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015). e invoicing for certain procedures and not the electronic tendering and submission of tenders had been introduced by the Agency by the end of 2017.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.40.9.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the grant management phase 2 ms project management and payments for the Fazilit ăConnecting Europe presented to the INEA (298).
The Agency drew up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement. CONTINUE CONTINUING OBSERVATIONS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARs 3.40.10. The Annex gives an overview of the corrective action taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(297) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(298) The farm did not carry out these inspection work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/223 EN ANNEX Follow-up of comments from previous years Court observations At EUR 0.5 million and 48 % respectively (2015: EUR 0.5 million and 51 %), the rate of committed appropriations for Title III for the following financial year was high.
Year 2016 Statement of corrective measures (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.) n.e.c.
EN C 434/224 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.40.8.
The Agency had introduced electronic invoicing for certain procedures by the end of 2017.
The electronic invitation to tender and the electronic submission of tenders were not introduced, as they do not concern the Agency.
Only the use of low-value installations or existing framework units managed by the services of the European Commission is allocated.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/225 3.41.
EXECUTIVE GENTURE FOR RESEARCH (REA) INTRODUCTION 3.41.1.
The Executive Agency for Research (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Brussels, was set up by Commission Decision 2008/46/EC (299).
The Agency was set up for a limited period of time (1 January 2008 to 31 December 2017) and is to manage specific Union actions in the field of research.
On 15 June 2009, the European Commission officially granted the Agency administrative and operational autonomy.
On 13 December 2013, the Commission, by implementing Decision 2013/778/EU (300), extended the period of validity of the REA to 2024 and transferred parts of the Agency's new Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, the Horizon 2020.
3.41.2.
The following table gives the main figures for the Agency (301).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 67 Total staff as at 31 December (2) 693 (1) The budget figures are based on the appropriations for payments.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
ACCESS TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL REFERRED TO IN THE REFERENCE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE IN 2016 63 628 PRESENTATION OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE PRESENTATION REFERRED TO in paragraph 3.41.3.
We have (a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (302) and the financial implementation reports (303) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the financial statements and, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty of the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The assessment of the assessment of the assessment of the assessment of the assessment of the accounts 3.41.4. of the accounts of the Court of Auditors 3.41.4. of the accounts of the Court of Auditors 3.41.4. of the accounts of the Court of Auditors 3.41.4. of the Court of Auditors 3.41.4. of the Court of Auditors 3.41.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4. of the European Communities 3.4.
In our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its financial statements and cash flows, and the changes in the net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in compliance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally accepted accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects in all respects in a proper manner.
OJ L 11, 15.1.2008, p. 9.
(300) OJ No.
(301) Further information about the Agency's information and activities can be found on its website www.ec.europa.eu/rea.
(302) The financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets and a summary of the financial statements and other explanations.
(303) The reports on budget implementation include the reports which summarise all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/226 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.41.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is in all essential respects legal and orderly.
Payments Payments judgment of legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.41.6.
3.41.7.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.41.8.
The process of selecting contract staff has been flawed.
The recruitment files and minutes of the selection committee meetings do not always contain the criteria used for the selection of candidates from the recruitment database (304).
The aim of the Financial Regulation was to provide the executive agencies with a single basis for electronic storage and the electronic exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (305).
As the EU's institutions and agencies are also subject to this requirement, the Commission is currently developing a comprehensive IT strategy, covering all stages of public procurement. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents on contract notices in the online edition of the EU's Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.41.10.
In May 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented a report on the completion of FP7 projects at REA (306).
The Agency drew up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken by the Court on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years.
(304) In addition, reference is made to the report on the Agency's human resources management presented by the Commission's Internal Audit Service in 2016.
(305) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (ăe-Government)
(306) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/227 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations In its December 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the Agency's overall staff management is appropriate.
The Agency and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures for the finding included in the report.
In another May 2016 audit report, the IAS concluded that the Agency, together with the Commission, has established an efficient internal control system for the management of the grants granted under the Horizon 2020 programme.
The Agency and IAS agreed, together with the Commission, on a plan for corrective measures for the very important finding.
On behalf of the Commission, the Agency's performance underwent an external evaluation for the period 2012-2015, for which the final report was presented in May 2016.
The conclusion of the evaluation is that the Agency has carried out its tasks in the period considered in an effective, efficient and cost-effective way, that its mission is still relevant for the Commission and the managers of the Agency and that the transfer of operational tasks from the Commission to the Agency has been successful.
The evaluation experts, however, also made possibilities for an even more effective and efficient way of shaping the activities. The Agency and the Commission were invited to improve their internal dialogue and cooperation, communication, as well as certain aspects of IT and human resources management.
The Agency and the Commission agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
EN C 434/228 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.41.9
The introduction of the audited recruitment procedure, which identified weaknesses, took place in 2016. As a result, a reserve list was drawn up and adopted in 2016, which was used in 2017 to provide a job offer.
The selection process of REA for contract staff was revised and later implemented in 2017, taking into account the recommendation of the IAS of 2016.
The revised selection process for contract agents takes into account the demands for clearly documented search criteria for living life and responsibilities and for admission and selection criteria.
The search criteria used by the selection boards for the sighting of living animals are documented in their minutes of meetings.
The weaknesses raised by the Court in the amended procedure have therefore already been resolved.
In the field of procurement, the REA relies on service agreements with the Commission or on the Commission's framework contracts.
REA would only initiate a specific procurement procedure if there is a specific need not covered by these agreements or contracts.
In 2017, REA carried out only a procurement procedure for a low value contract.
The current tools for the electronic tendering and the electronic submission of tenders are applicable only to public procurement procedures the scope of which exceeds the threshold of 144,000 euros. As the REA has not yet started a procurement procedure the scope of which exceeds that threshold, it was unable to use the tools for the electronic tendering and the electronic submission of tenders in 2017.
In addition, the introduction of the electronic tender and electronic submission of tenders in accordance with the Commission's roadmap for all EU institutions and agencies in late 2018, and thus the implementation process only started in 2018.
The Agency is already using electronic invoicing and will also use the electronic call and the electronic submission of tenders in the event of the launch of a call for tenders, as soon as these modules also cover medium- and low-value modules.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/229 3.42.
EXECUTIVE GOVERNMENT FOR CONSUMER, HEALTH, AGRICULTURE AND FOODSTUFFS (CHAFEA) INTRODUCTION 3.42.1.
The Executive Agency for Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established on 1 January 2005 (2005-2008: Executive Agency for the Health Programme (PHEA), 2008-2013: Executive Agency for Health and Consumers (EAHC), as of 1 January 2014: Executive Agency for Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food) (307).
The Agency is based in Luxembourg. Its mandate has been renewed until 31 December 2024.
The Agency is carrying out the Community action programme in the field of health, the consumer programme and the "Better Training for Safer Food" initiative.
3.42.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (308).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euros) 10 total staff as at 31 December (1) 61 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary staff and contract staff, as well as seconded national experts.
(a) the Agency's annual accounts, comprising the annual accounts (309) and the financial implementation reports ( 310) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the annual accounts underlying the accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Deficit of the Invoicing Review of the Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing Invoicing 3.42.4.
(307) Commission's 2013/770/EU implementing Decision (OJ L 108, 19.4.2013, p.
(308) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website http://ec.europa.eu/chafea/.
(309) The annual financial statements include the financial statements, the financial results, the financial statements, the financial statements, the table of changes in net profit, and a summary of financial statements and other statements.
(310) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/230 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue and revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue and revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.42.5. According to us, the revenue and revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are, in all essential respects, legal and regular.
Payments Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts 3.42.6.
Emphasis on a situation 3.42.7.
The Agency's accountant has been absent since the end of November 2017.
On 13 December 2017, the Agency's Steering Committee appointed a Management Board as the ad interim accountant, although the Management Board represents the authorising officer, who is a authorising officer.
This is contrary to Article 28 of the Agency's Financial Rules, which states that the powers of instruction and accounting are separate functions and exclude each other.
3.42.8.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.42.9.
In 2017, the Agency has insufficiently documented recruitment procedures.
This would call into question the principles of transparency and equal treatment of applicants.
In 2017, the Agency had difficulties in reaching a sufficient number of tenderers in tender procedures with a low and medium value.
It received only one offer for each of the received procedures.
3.42.11.
The Executive Agencies should establish a common framework for the electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (311) in accordance with the Financial Regulation (311).
3.42.12.
The Agency publishes job advertisements for temporary staff on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Agency for Personnel Selection (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity, and enable the citizens to consult job advertisements of the various European institutions and agencies, and consult them on the Agency's website. COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.42.13.
The Agency's budgeting has been weak. In Title III of the budget, large amounts of committed funds were transferred from 2017 to 2018 from 1.6 million euros to 63% (2016: 1.2 million euros and 48%).
CONTINUATION OF COMMENTS FROM THE COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 342.14.
The Annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations of previous years. (311) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government).
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/231 EN ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years Statements by the Court The Agency cancelled 0.2 million euros or 18% of the funds transferred to 2015 (2014: 0.1 million euros or 14% respectively), indicating M-angels in its planning.
The Agency carried EUR 1.1 million and EUR 48% respectively (2015: EUR 0.9 million and EUR 52%) of the appropriations committed under Title III (expenditure related to the Agency's activity) to the following financial year.
These transfers mainly concern IT services and other studies commissioned but not completed by the end of the year.
The Agency cancelled EUR 0.2 million, or 17%, of the funds transferred from 2015 to 2016, which indicates that the Agency's needs had to be considered insufficient.
Year 2015 2016 Situation of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
EN C 434/232 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY REPRESENTATION OF THE AGENCY 3.42.7 The annual accounts have been prepared and signed by the accounting officer appointed and again in office.
3.42.9 The Agency accepts the Court's observation that the recruitment file analysed by the Court was not adequately documented.
However, the CHAFEA ensured that no candidate was preferred in this competition, as all candidates were treated the same way.
3.42.10.
In these two low- and medium-value entries, the CHAFEA carried out all the steps recommended in the Financial Regulation: the ex-ante announcement took place as required, and the required number of applicants was invited to submit an offer, with all applicants having a lot of experience with the calls for tenders and the desired services.
As to the time that the tenderers were told to submit their bids, the CHAFEA kept to the Vademecum of DG BUDGET for the procurement sector.
CHAFEA is currently testing several IT modules for electronic procurement, including electronic submission of tenders.
The first tender where tenders are submitted electronically will be tested in the third quarter of 2018.
CHAFEA will fully comply with the EU Commission's recommendation to implement the system of electronic bid submission before the end of 2018.
CHAFEA agrees with the observation that the publication of job advertisements for temporary agents on the EPSO website can increase its visibility. 3.42.13.
The Agency accepts the Court's observations.
The agency will continue to strive to further reduce the transfer and the C8 cancellation rate.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/233 This report, including the 41 changes concerning individual agencies and bodies, was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Neven MATES, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 18 September 2018.
Official Journal of the European Union C 373 58th year 10 November 2015 English edition Content 2015/C 373/01 2015/C 373/02 Notices and Notices IV Information INFORMATION OF THE INSTITUTIONS, BODIES AND OTHER BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION Court of Auditors Annual report of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 together with the replies of the Court of Auditors on the activities of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2014 together with the Commission's replies......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
289 EN EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/1 IV (Information) INFORMATION OF THE INSTITUTIONS, BODIES AND OTHER BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION COURT OF AUDITORS The Court of Auditors of the European Union, in accordance with Article 287(1) and (4) of the TFEU, Article 148(1) and Article 162(1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Articles 43, 48 and 60 of Council Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 of 18 February 2008 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the 10th European Development Fund, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 567/2014, adopted its ANNUAL REPORTS on the financial year 2014 at its meeting of 10 September 2015.
These reports, together with the institutions' replies to the Court's observations, were forwarded to the institutions with responsibility for discharge and to the other institutions.
Members of the Court of Auditors: Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (President), Igors LUDBORŽS, Jan KINŠT, Kersti KALJULAID, Karel PINXTEN, Henri GRETHEN, Szabolcs FAZAKAS, Louis GALEA, Ladislav BALKO, Augustyn KUBIK, Milan Martin CVIKL, Rasa BUDBERGYTŽ, Lazaros S. LAZAROU, Hans Gustaf WESSBERG, Pietro RUSSO, Ville ITAELÄ, Kevin CARDIFF, Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA, Iliana IVANOVA, George PUFAN, Neven MATES, Alex BRENNINKMEIJER, Danièle LAMARQUE, Nikolaos MILIONIS, Phil WYNN OWEN, Klaus-Heiner LEHNE, Oskar HERICS, Bettina JAKOBSEN.
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/3 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET (2015/C 373/01)
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/5 CONTENTS General introduction.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter2 — Budget management and financial management............................................ Chapter3 —EU budgetandresults....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter5 —‘Competitiveness for growth and employment'.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter6 —‘Economic,social and territorial cohesion'...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter 7 —‘Natural resources'.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Page 7 9 65 83 127 147 165 213 261 275
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/7 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 0.1.
The European Court of Auditors is the institution responsible for the audit of the European Union's (EU) finances under the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, we contribute to improving EU financial management and, at the same time, act as independent guardians of the financial interests of EU citizens.
More detailed information on our work can be found in the Annual Activity Report, which can be found on the website www.eca.europa.eu, as well as in the special reports on the EU's expenditure programmes and revenue, as well as in the opinions on new or amended legislation.
This is our 38th annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, covering the financial year 2014.
The annual report on the European Development Funds shall be presented separately.
0.3.
The EU's general budget is adopted annually by the Council and the European Parliament.
Our annual report, together with the special reports, forms the basis for the discharge procedure, during which the European Parliament, following a Council recommendation, decides whether the Commission has carried out its discharge tasks satisfactorily.
At the same time as we transmit the report to the European Parliament and to the Council, we transmit our annual report to the national parliaments.
0.4.
The main element of our annual report is the statement of the reliability of the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union and the legality and regularity of the transactions (hereinafter referred to as the regularity of the transactions).
We complement this Statement of Assurance with specific assessments of all major EU activities.
0.5.
The chapter structure now reflects the headings of the multiannual financial framework (MFF), so our report is even more relevant.
The financial framework entered into force in 2014 to determine the size and distribution of EU expenditure for the period to 2020.
This should make it easier for readers to establish a link between the findings of our report and the relevant budgetary and accounting information.
0.6.
There are no separate annual accounts for each of the MFF headings and, therefore, the conclusions presented in the context of specific assessments are not audit opinions.
0.7.
This year's report is structured as follows: — Chapter 1 contains the Statement of Assurance and a summary of the results of our audit of the reliability of the accounts and the regularity of transactions. — Chapter 2 presents our financial and financial management findings. — Chapter 3 contributes to our strategic objective of improving the EU's public accountability. The focus is on the extent to which the performance framework enables the Commission to monitor and manage progress towards Europe 2020. — Chapter 4 contains our findings on revenue. — Chapters 5 to 9 (on the MFF headings 1a, 1b, 2, 4 and 5)(1) contains the results of our audit on the regularity of transactions and the audit of selected systems and annual activity reports.
0.8.
The Commission's replies (or, where appropriate, the replies of other EU institutions and bodies) to our comments are contained in the report, and our findings and conclusions are taken into account in the replies of the audited body.
However, as an external auditor, it is our sole responsibility to present our audit findings, to derive conclusions from these findings and to carry out an independent and impartial evaluation of the reliability of the accounts and the regularity of the transactions.
(1) We do not provide specific assessments of the expenditure of the MFF Headings 3 (security and citizenship) and 6 (compensation payments).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/9 EN CHAPTER 1 Statement of Assurance and Related Statements CONTENTS Court Statement of Assurance submitted to the European Parliament and the Council — Report of the Independent Auditor Introduction EU expenditure is an important tool to achieve policy objectives Audit findings for the financial year 2014 The annual accounts did not reveal any material misrepresentations of the regularity of the accounts: our general audit results are consistent but indicate a substantial error rate There are many forms of corrective action with different implications The Commission's synthesis report confirms errors to a substantial extent in the transactions The Commission's annual report confirms errors in the substantial extent of the transactions — Annex 1.2 — Annex 1.3 — Annex 1.4 — Annex 1.5 — The audit approach and audit methodology Follow-up earlier comments on the reliability of the accounts Extracts from the consolidated annual accounts 2014 The estimated error rate (probable error rate, MLE — most consistent for the 2014 financial year — for the 2014 2014 financial year — Report of the Court of Auditors — Statement of Assurance — Report of the Court of Auditors — Report of Independent Auditors Introduction Introduction to the European Union Introduction — Report of the European Court of Independent Auditors Introduction and of Independent Audit Introduction
DE C 373/10 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 DE C 373/10 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 RELEASE OF THE HIGH RELIEF RELEASE OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITERS I. We have a) the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union, the consolidated annual accounts(1) and the aggregated annual accounts (2) for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 and approved by the Commission on 23 July 2015, and b) the legality and regularity of the operations on which the accounts are based, as referred to in Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Management II's responsibility. In accordance with Articles 317 and 318 TFEU and the Financial Regulation, the Commission is responsible for the establishment and proper presentation of the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union on the basis of internationally recognised public sector accounting principles and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
This responsibility includes the design, design and maintenance of internal control structures, as necessary for the preparation and presentation of financial statements, which are free of any material, intended or unintended misrepresentations.
The Commission bears the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts of the European Union (Article 317 TFEU).
The responsibility of the auditor III. The responsibility of the auditor III. The responsibility of the auditor is to provide the European Parliament and the Council, on the basis of our audit, with a statement of the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying them.
We have carried out our audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing as well as the professional behavioral requirements of IFAC and the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions of INTOSAI.
According to these standards, we must comply with professional behaviour requirements and to plan and carry out the audit in such a way that sufficient certainty is obtained as to whether the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union are free of material misrepresentations and whether the underlying transactions are legal and proper.
IV. An audit shall consist of the performance of audit acts in order to obtain audit evidence of the value estimates and other information contained in the consolidated annual accounts and of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The selection of audit acts shall be at the discretion of the auditor, including the assessment of the risks of material, intentional or unintended, misrepresentations in the consolidated accounts, and material, intentional or unintended, infringements of the European Union legislation in the underlying transactions.
In assessing these risks, the auditor shall take into account all internal controls relevant to the preparation and proper presentation of the consolidated annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, in order to plan audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances in question, but not with the aim of giving an audit opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
An audit shall also include the assessment of the adequacy of the accounting policies applied, the representativeness of the estimated accounting values and the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
V. In the field of revenue, we use the macroeconomic aggregates relevant for their calculation as the starting point for our examination of the own resources derived from VAT and from gross national income, and we evaluate the Commission's systems for the processing of this data until the Member States' contributions are received and until the Member States' entry into the consolidated accounts.
In the area of traditional own resources, we examine the accounts of the customs authorities and analyse the tax flows until they are received by the Commission and until the amounts are recorded in the accounts.
1. Consolidated annual accounts shall include the balance sheet, the profit and loss account, the cash flow account, changes in net assets, and a summary of key accounting rules and other explanatory notes (including segment reporting).
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/11 VI. In the area of expenditure, we review the payment transactions after the expenditure has been incurred, recorded and accepted. This review is carried out on all types of payments, except advances, (including payments for the acquisition of assets) only after they have been made.
Advance payments shall be examined if the beneficiary provides or is required to provide proof of their proper use and if the advance is or can be recovered.
VII. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and suitable to serve as the basis for our audit opinions.
In our assessment, the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union, for the year ending 31 December 2014, shall, for the year ending 31 December 2014, be the Union's financial and financial position, the results of its operations and its cash flows and the changes in net assets for the financial year ending that financial year in accordance with the Financial Regulation and the accounting rules based on the internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all material respects as a whole.The legality and regularity of the operations underlying the annual accounts Revenues Payments The accounting opinion on the legality and regularity of revenue underlying the annual accounts IX. The annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 are on all material matters lawful and regular.
The basis for the failed audit opinion on the legality and regularity of payments for the annual accounts X. The expenditure entered in 2014 for headings 1 to 4 of the multiannual financial framework (3), covering operational appropriations, is to a substantial extent subject to errors.
Our estimated error rate for the payments underlying the annual accounts is 4.4%.
Our conclusion is underpinned by the analysis of the risk levels presented by the Commission in the synthesis report.
Failure to give an opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts XI. Our assessment shows that the underlying payments to the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 are substantially affected by an error due to the importance of the facts described in the paragraph "Basicity of the failed audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments to the annual accounts".
3. These headings are dealt with in Chapters 5 to 8 of this annual report.
10 September 2015 Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi, 1615 Luxembourg, LUXEMBOURG
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/13 EN C 373/13 EN COMMENTS FROM THE HOF INTRODUCTION EU expenditure is an important instrument for achieving the policy objectives 1.1.
EU expenditure is an important instrument for achieving policy objectives.
Other important instruments include legislation, the free movement of goods, services and capital and the free movement of persons throughout the Union.
On average, EU expenditure amounts to 1.9% of total government expenditure in the EU Member States (see Figure 1.1).
In accordance with the Treaty, our role is, inter alia, to assess whether the use of the EU budget is in accordance with relevant laws and other legislation; — to deliver our audit opinion on the EU's annual accounts; — to report on EU expenditure's economy, economy and effectiveness (4); — to submit opinions on legislative proposals with financial implications.
With our audit work to support the Statement of Assurance, we are fulfilling the first and second of these objectives.
This audit work allows us to identify risks that affect economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
It also provides an important input to the opinions we give on the proposed financial rules.
(4) In Article 30(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 96, 30.4.2012, p.
1), these terms are defined as follows: ‘The principle of economy requires that the resources used by the institution concerned in its [sic] activities are made available at the right time, in sufficient quantity and appropriate quality and at the lowest cost.
The principle of economic efficiency concerns the optimal relationship between the resources used and the results achieved.
The principle of effectiveness is concerned with achieving certain set goals and achieving certain desired results.
DE C 373/14 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Figure 1.1 — EU expenditure in 2014 in each Member State as a share of total government expenditure Sources: European Union expenditure (EC invoicing data compiled by the Court).
Total government expenditure of Member States (Eurostat — General government finance statistics — General government revenue, expenditure and main aggregates — General government expenditure 2014) (http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/government-finance-statistics/data/database).
For country codes, see Annex 1.5.
HOF'S COMMENTS 1.3.
In this chapter of the Annual Report, we provide background information on the Statement of Assurance and an overview of our audit approach (see Annex 1.1), our audit findings and conclusions; — we analyse the nature of the various risks linked to EU expenditure; — we describe the measures the Commission has taken following comments and recommendations on the reliability of the accounts we presented in previous annual reports (see Annex 1.2).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/15 DE OBSERVATIONS OF THE HOFES THE 2014 BUDGETARY DETERMINATIONS The annual accounts did not show any material misstatements of 1.4.
Our comments refer to the consolidated annual accounts (5) (the ‘annual accounts') of the European Union for the financial year 2014.
The annual accounts were received by us along with the accounting officer's declaration of completeness on 23 July 2015 (6).
The annual accounts are accompanied by an analysis document on the financial statements of the Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis(7), which is not the subject of our audit opinion.
However, in accordance with audit principles, we have reviewed its consistency with the information contained in the annual accounts.
1.5.
The financial statements (see excerpts in Annex 1.3) show that the total liabilities as at 31 December 2014 amounted to EUR 220.7 billion compared to the total assets of EUR 162.7 billion.
The economic result for 2014 shows a deficit of EUR 11.3 billion (see also points 2.12-2.13).
Our audit showed that the annual accounts showed no material misstatements (see also Annex 1.2).
Our comments on the EU's budgetary and financial management are set out in Chapter 2.
(5) The consolidated annual accounts shall consist of: (a) the consolidated annual accounts, which shall include the balance sheet (in which the assets and liabilities at the end of the year are shown), the profit and loss account (in which the income and expenses of the year are shown), the cash flow account (in which the accounting changes affect the cash and cash equivalents) and the changes in net assets, along with the associated explanatory notes; (b) the aggregated balance sheet covering the revenue and expenditure of the financial year, together with explanatory notes on the accounts.
(6) The provisional accounts were received by us on 31 March 2015, together with the accounting officer's declaration of completeness, which, in accordance with the Financial Regulation (see Article 147 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012), is the last possible date for the transmission.
The final annual accounts were received eight days before the deadline of 31 July set in Article 148 for transmission.
The revised version of the analytical document on the financial statements of the Commission financial statement Discussion and Analysis was submitted to the Court on 1 September 2015.
(7) See Guideline on recommended practice 2 "Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis" of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB).
C 373/16 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 1.7.
In 2014, the Commission changed the presentation of the annual accounts several times.
These amendments will take account of the new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and will further align them with international standards.
Considerable improvements have been made in the presentation of certain explanatory notes to the financial statements (8).
Points affecting the annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8. annual accounts 1.8.
The following points affect the annual accounts: 1.8. (a) The Commission has made progress in presenting the (a) explanatory note 6 on the annual accounts (on the protection of the EU budget) as discussed in point 1.13 of our annual report on the financial year 2013 and in point 2 of this year's follow-up report (Annex 1.2).
The explanation now contains more targeted information.
For the cohesion area, it shows the extent to which corrections are made prior to the collection of expenditure, during implementation and at closure.
Furthermore, the explanation now, albeit not in quantified form, includes a description of the impact on the EU budget of corrective measures (such as the creation of assigned revenue, expenditure withdrawn and replaced by Member States, etc.) (9).(b) Note 2.5.2 on pre-financing (proposals to the Member States) shows that the Commission has limited information on the use of the resources available for shared management financial instruments (EUR 3.8 billion) and other aid schemes (EUR 3.6 billion).
The Commission may need to make significant adjustments at the end of the 2007-2013 programming period.
(8) Including a consolidated presentation of short-term and long-term assets and liabilities and a simplified presentation of segment reporting.
(9) In its explanatory note 6 on the 2015 financial statements, the Commission seeks to take account of the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union of June 2015 to annul decisions on financial corrections amounting to EUR 457 million.
In the explanatory note 2.10 ‘Reserves', these decisions are already treated as adjustments on the basis of events after the closing date (judgment of the Court of Justice of 24 June 2015 in Joined Cases C-549/12 P and C-54/13 P annulment of two Commission decisions on an amount of EUR 94 million in the context of ERDF programmes in Germany and judgment in Case C-263/13 P annulment of three Commission decisions in respect of the amount of EUR 363 million in the case of ERDF programmes in Spain).
These decisions were taken in the context of the expenditure under the 1994-1999 operational programmes.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION C 373/17 DE OF THE HOFES REPLY Official Journal of the European Union Official Journal of the European Union: Although our examination results are stable, they indicate a material error rate 1.9.
We are reviewing the EU's revenue and expenditure in order to assess whether they are in line with relevant laws and other legislation.
We provide our audit results on the revenue in Chapters 4 and on expenditure in Chapters 5 to 9 (see Table 1.1).
1.10.
Revenue was not significantly affected by errors (see point 4.26).
We continue to see a significant error rate in expenditure.
At 4.4 %, the estimated error rate was similar to the 2013 rate (4.5% (11) after taking the relevant corrective measures into account, see point 1.32 (10)) (see Table 1.1).
Expenditure in the MFF heading 5 (administration) was not significantly affected by errors (see paragraph 9.15).
For all other operational expenditure headings, expenditure was considerably affected by errors (see points 5.32-5.33, 6.76-6.77, 7.72-7.73 and 8.26-8.27).
MFF-Headed population (billion euro) Estimated error rate 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (UEL) Heading 1a 13.0 5.6 3.1 8.1 Heading 1b 55.7 5.7 3.1 8.2 Heading 2 57.5 3.6 2.7 4.6 Heading 4 7.4 2.7 0.9 4.4 Heading 5 8.8 0.5 0.1 0.9 (10) "Reparations made at source for applications that did not result in payment or reduced payments should not be compared with the amount of final payments.
(11) The estimated error rate estimated by us in the 2013 annual report was 4.7%.
The comparable estimated rate set out here is 0.2 percentage points lower, as our new approach to quantify infringements of procurement rules has been used (see points 1.13 and 1.14).
C 373/18 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 EN MFR heading Tested population (billion euro) Estimated error rate 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (UEL) Heading 3, 6 and other 2.1 — — — 144.5 4.4 3.3 5.4 Chapter of the annual report Other (1) Total revenue Estimated error rate 2013 (%) — 4.5 0 143.9 0 0 0 (1) We do not provide a specific assessment and separate chapter for expenditure under the MFR headings 3 (security and citizenship) and 6 (compensation payments) and for other expenditure (special instruments other than the MFR 2014-2020, such as the emergency aid reserve, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the European Union Solidarity Fund and the Flexibility Instrument).
However, audit work in these areas contributes to our overall conclusion on expenditure in 2014. Source: European Court of Auditors.
REMARKS OF THE COURT 1.11.
Overall, the test results have remained relatively stable over the last three years at a level well above our benchmark for materiality (see Figure 1.2).
REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 1.11.
The Commission notes that the error rate reported by the Court is an annual estimate that takes account of the accounting corrections of project expenditure made before the Court's audit is announced.
The Commission notes that it is bound by the Financial Regulation, which lays down in Article 32(2)(e) that its internal control system should, inter alia, ensure that its "appropriate management of the risks related to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions should take account of the multiannual nature of the programmes and of the nature of the payments concerned".
In the 2014 Synthesis Report (COM(2015) 279 final), the Commission estimated the future impact of corrective mechanisms to be EUR 2.7 billion, which corresponds to 1.9% of payments from the EU budget.
The Commission will continue to perform its monitoring function by making financial corrections and recoveries at a level corresponding to the level of irregularities and irregularities identified throughout the period and also after the closure of the programmes.
DE 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/19 Figure 1.2 — The estimated error rate (the most likely error rate, MLE — most likely error error) (2012-2014) (1) (1) The estimated error rate for 2012 and 2013 has been adjusted to take into account the new approach to quantify serious non-compliance with the procurement rules (see point 1.13).
Source: European Court of Auditors.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.12.
EU expenditure consists mainly of two types of expenditure programmes with very different risk patterns (12): — programmes based on payment entitlements, where payment depends on whether certain conditions are met; such programmes include grants for students and research grants (Chapter 5), direct grants for farmers (Chapter 7), direct budget support(13) (Chapter 8) and salaries and pensions (Chapter 9); — reimbursement schemes, for which the EU reimbursement of eligible costs for eligible activities, include research projects (Chapter 5), schemes for investment in regional and rural development (Chapters 6 and 7), training programmes (Chapter 6) and development projects (Chapter 8).
(12) Paragraphs 1.20-1.22. cover these different risks.
(13) Budget support payments are a contribution to the general budget of a State or to the budget allocated by the State to a specific policy or objective (see also paragraphs 8.7 and 8.8).
THE HOFES' COMMENTS A new audit approach...
For 2014, we redesigned our approach to quantify serious breaches of procurement rules.
This approach clarifies how we assess the impact of these infringements.
In particular, we have introduced a proportional approach to the calculation of errors associated with the modification of contracts.
1.14.
In order to ensure comparability of the results presented in this report, we have adapted the figures for 2012 and 2013 in Table 1.1 and in Figures 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 in line with this new approach.
Annex 1.4 contains the unadjusted historical data on the estimated error rates for the period 2009-2013.
As a result of this adjustment, the estimated overall error rate in 2013 was reduced by 0.2% and by 0.3% in 2012.
The adjustment does not affect the conclusions that we reached in relation to those years, and it is still a clearly significant error rate.
1.15.
In 2015, we will align our approach to cross compliance with the revised regulatory framework for the common agricultural policy.
While we will continue to report on the information the Commission is presenting on cross-compliance, this will no longer be the subject of our audit proceedings.
This year we identified numerous cross-compliance errors with regard to one in four of the farms visited.
The share of these errors in our estimated total error rate is 0.2 percentage points (2013: 0.2)(14) and the error rate for the chapter ‘Natural resources' is 0.6 percentage points (2013: 0.5).
The Commission welcomes the change in the Court's approach from 2015.
For 2014, it reiterates its view that cross compliance infringements do not affect the conditions for aid for payments (see the Commission's reply to point 7.7).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/21 DE COMMENTS OF THE HOFES... and a new structure for our annual report 1.16.
As described in the general introduction (point 0.5.0.7), we have reshaped the chapter structure of our annual report.
For the purpose of comparability, the following (Figure 1.3) illustrates what the audit results of the previous year would look like if both the new chapter structure and the new approach had been used to quantify infringements of procurement rules (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
We used these figures in Table 1.1.
Figure 1.3 — Reclassification of audit results for 2013 based on the structure of the annual report for the financial year 2014 and taking into account the new approach for the quantification of non-compliance with the procurement rules Source: European Court of Auditors taking into account the revised structure of the annual report and the new approach for the quantification of serious non-compliance with the procurement rules.
1.17.
Figure 1.4 shows that cohesion is the main contributor to our estimated 2014 error rate, followed by ‘Natural resources', ‘Competitiveness' and ‘Europe in the world'.
This distribution is in line with our findings for 2013.
DE C 373/22 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Figure 1.4 — Contribution to the estimated total error rate of 2014 according to the MFF heading Source: European Court of Auditors.
OBSERVATIONS OF THE COURT 1.18.
Eligibility errors in the reimbursement schemes have the main part of the errors detected for 2014 (see also points 1.20-1.22, Figure 1.5, and Figure 1.6). (a) The estimated error rate for the reimbursement of expenditure is 5.5 % (2013: 5.6 %).
Typical errors in this field include: — inclusion of ineligible costs in the cost statements; — ineligible projects; — activities or beneficiaries; — serious infringements of the procurement rules; — serious infringements of the procurement rules during the execution of the contract (i.e. amendments to the contract and the award of additional works).
REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 1.18. a. The Commission has also identified similar problems in its audits.
During the 2007-2013 programming period, the Commission has made considerable efforts to identify the root cause of the problems and, where appropriate, to implement corrective measures.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/23 DE HOFES' COMMENTS b) For payment entitlement-based programmes, the estimated error rate is 2.7% (2013: 3.0%).
Typical errors in this area include: — excessive area data from farmers, — administrative errors in farmers' payments.
Figure 1.5 — Share of the estimated total error rate by type of error Source: European Court of Auditors.
1.19.
The figures for 2013 in Figure 1.5 were drawn up on the same basis as in 2014, i.e. on the basis of the approach described in point 1.13.
C 373/24 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION REPLY OF THE REMARKS OF THE HOFES Type of expenditure and error rates are closely related to 1.20.
We have analysed the relationship between the type of expenditure and the risk of error.
The extent to which the correct calculation of payments to beneficiaries depends on information provided by the beneficiaries themselves is characteristic of EU expenditure.
This applies to the largest category of payment entitlement-based expenditure schemes: the area-related aid paid to farmers.
This is particularly important in the area of reimbursement schemes: the beneficiaries must provide information in their application in order to demonstrate that they have participated in an eligible measure and that they have incurred costs eligible for reimbursement.
All types of management are affected (15).
1.21.
Figure 1.6 is based on all audits carried out on EU expenditure over the last two years, both on the annual reports on the general budget and on the European Development Funds (16).
The cash flows are grouped according to their nature.
The size of the circles in this figure is the proportion of total expenditure in each case, the respective positioning along the 45-degree line indicates the corresponding estimated error rate; the colour of the circles indicates whether the expenditure is based on entitlements or reimbursements.
1.22.
This figure includes both elements of mandatory discretion (assessment of the impact of systems and risks related to the type of operation — see Annex 1.1, point 1) and empirical elements (measurement of estimated error rates over a two-year period).
On the one hand, the aim is to meet the wishes of our target group for more information on the various risk profiles, on the other hand, to assist the Commission in taking action on areas of persistently high error rates.
1.20.
The integrated management and control system (InVeKoS), which includes the Land Parcel Identification System (LPIS), contributes significantly to the prevention of errors and the reduction of the error rate (see point 7.32).
LPIS is established and maintained by the national authorities.
Payments to final beneficiaries are only possible after their claim has been compared with the data available in the area identification system.
LPIS results in a lower error rate for area-related aid than for any other type of aid under shared management.
The Commission considers that Box 1.2 and Box 1.3 confirm this view.
(15) Direct management (budget directly carried out by the European Commission), indirect management (non-EU partner countries, international organisations, etc.) and shared management (budget management shared between the Commission and Member States).
(16) Evaluation based on the same approach for both years (see points 1.13 and 1.14).
DE 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/25 Figure 1.6 — Relationship between type of operation, risk and estimated error rate for EU operations (2013-2014) (1) Reimbursement of the heading ‘Europe in the world' includes projects funded by several donors and, in practice, includes many characteristics of the schemes based on payment entitlements and lower error rates.
C 373/26 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE REPLY OF THE THE REPLY OF THE COURT The results in the various areas of expenditure show different patterns of error 1.23. "Competitiveness (Chapter 5): The estimated error rate is 5.6% and is thus above the corresponding results for 2013 (4.0%(17). Most of the expenditure is paid for, and the errors in this area mainly reflect the different categories of ineligible costs (mainly personnel costs, other direct costs and indirect costs).
1.24. ‘Cohesion' (chapter 6): The estimated error rate is 5.7%, which is above the corresponding results for 2013 (5.3% (17)).
Almost all expenditure in this area takes the form of reimbursement.
The main causes of error include serious breaches of procurement rules (around half of the estimated error rate), followed by ineligible costs in expenditure declarations (more than a quarter of the estimated error rate).
Infringements of State aid rules and ineligible projects constitute the remaining part of the errors.
1.25. ‘Natural resources' (Chapter 7): The estimated error rate is 3.6%, down from the corresponding results for 2013 (4.4 % (17).
The European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) accounts for more than three quarters of expenditure in this area, and this fund is less prone to error than the rural development area, for which we have for a long time observed high error rates, in particular for expenditure incurred on the basis of reimbursement.
Overall, excessive area or animal numbers by farmers contributed about one third of the estimated error rate.
Errors related to non-eligible beneficiaries, activities or expenditure accounted for the second highest proportion (about a quarter of the estimated error rate).
The main remaining shares are cross compliance infringements (one sixth) and administrative errors (one sixth).
1.23.
See the Commission's replies to Chapter 5 of the annual report (points 5.6-5.17).
1.24.
See the Commission's replies to Chapter 6 of the annual report (paragraphs 6.23-6.45 and 6.76).
1.25.
The lower error rate for the EAGF reflects the effectiveness of InVeKoS, and in particular of LPIS, in the correct implementation, as regards the avoidance of errors from the first moment of the process.
The Commission considers that, overall, InVeKoS is a sound system for managing CAP expenditure.
See also the replies in points 1.15 and 1.20, points 7.15 to 7.19 and points 7.25 to 7.29.
(17) This comparative figure shall take into account both the reclassification of the budget lines to ensure that the chapters reflect the MFF headings and the new approach to non-compliance with the procurement rules.
See also Figure 1.3).
THE COMMENTS OF THE COURT 1.26. "Europe in the World" (Chapter 8): The estimated error rate is 2.7%, thus exceeding the corresponding results for 2013 (2.1%(18)(19).
Ineligible costs reimbursed by the Commission represent more than half of the total error rate.
Payments for unsuccessful works and services and deliveries for unsuccessful services account for a quarter of the total error rate.
The remainder is due to a lack of evidence (about a tenth of the estimated error rate), the incorrect calculation of expenditure and the lack of public procurement rules.
1.27. "Administration" (Chapter 9): The estimated error rate is 0.5%, which is a decrease compared to the corresponding results for 2013 (1.1%(18).
Most expenditure in this area relates to salaries, pensions and allowances paid by EU institutions and bodies.
A small number of errors in the allowances accounted for the largest share of the error rate in this area, which is, overall, not significant.
1.28.
As explained in the general introduction, we do not draw up a separate chapter for expenditure not covered by the MFF headings 1, 2, 4 and 5.
Therefore, the remaining expenditure of EUR 2.1 billion (1.5 % of the expenditure of our audit) is reported in this chapter (20).
Of the EUR 2.1 billion total, EUR 0.5 billion is spent on expenditure on and by ten agencies which are the subject of our special annual reports(21).
The main errors identified in this area were the reimbursement of ineligible costs (see Box 1.1).
(18) This comparison figure takes into account both the redeployment of the budget lines to ensure that the chapters reflect the MFF headings and the new approach to non-compliance with the procurement rules.
(19) The majority of the expenditure in the chapter "External relations, external assistance and enlargement" of the annual report for the financial year 2013 remained in the corresponding chapter of the MFF heading "Europe in the world" and a small proportion of the expenditure is now covered in the chapter "Economic, social and territorial cohesion". See also Figure 1.3.
(20) See footnote 1 in Table 1.1.
(21) European Judicial Cooperation Agency, European Agency for the Management of Large-scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, European Asylum Support Office, European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, European Food Safety Authority, European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, European Police College, European Police Office, European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
C 373/28 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE HOFES Box 1.1 — Example of errors in the reimbursement of costs of a project under the MFF heading 3 "Security and citizenship of the Union" The subject of our sample was a payment of the Commission to a beneficiary who was the coordinator of a cooperation project under the "Fundamental Rights and Citizenship of the Union" programme.
The beneficiary public body assigned two permanent staff (officials) to the project on a half-day basis and charged part of its salaries in the project cost statement.
Deputies' staff only cause additional costs, on the grounds that additional staff needs to be recruited in order to replace the staff in their usual duties, and that this in fact costs them.
As the beneficiary body has not made provision for the replacement of officials, these costs are not eligible.
In total, the ineligible costs declared by the beneficiary entity amounted to EUR 58 000 of the total costs charged in the amount of EUR 237 000.
We identified non-eligible costs reimbursed by the Commission for eight of the 25 projects covered by the sample for the MFF heading 3.
Box 1.1 — Examples of errors in the reimbursement of costs of a project under the MFF heading 3 "Security and citizenship of the Union" The Commission has been aware of the difficulties of the public bodies in complying with the eligibility rules applicable to staff costs for public bodies (committing other staff to replace the staff in their usual duties).
Therefore, from 2011 onwards, the Commission amended the eligibility rules applicable to the staff of public bodies, taking advantage of the flexibility provided by the implementing rules of the Financial Regulation.
Thus, the non-eligible costs identified by the Court in the above-mentioned grant (staff costs for staff in public-sector entities that are not assigned a replacement) would now be considered eligible.
1.29.
The estimated error rate for total shared management expenditure is 4.6% (2013: 4.9%(22)) and for all other operational expenditure(23) 4.6% (2013: 3.7%(22).
The estimated administrative expenditure error rate is 0.5% (2013: 1.0% (22) ).
(22) This reference figure takes into account the new approach to non-compliance with the procurement rules.
See also points 1.13 and 1.14.
(23) These expenditures are mainly covered by Chapters 7 and 8, but in some cases they are also covered by Chapters 5 and 6.
The total error rate for shared management expenditure is based on the study of 687 transactions (from a population of EUR 113 billion).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/29 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION OF THE REMARKS OF THE HOFES There are many forms of corrective measures with varying effects 1.30.
Our study of "errors and corrections" aims to shed light on the complex mechanisms of implementing and recording corrective measures and to explain the many ways in which these mechanisms can shed light on our audit work.
In some areas of expenditure, new instruments will be available to the Commission when expenditure for the new programming period is made available.
Corrective measures 1.31.
We seek to take account of corrective measures taken by the Member States and the Commission in the run-up to the payment or our investigation.
We also take note of corrections which take place after our audit announcement. However, we cannot reduce the estimated error rate whenever the audit itself triggers the corrective action (24).
We review the application of these corrections (including recovery of beneficiaries and corrections at project level) and adjust the calculation of the error rate if necessary.
However, the impact of the corrective measures varies significantly depending on the expenditure area and on the corrective action.
1.32.
The Commission and the authorities of the Member States applied corrective measures to 24 of the operations examined in a sample in 2014, which had a direct impact on the operation concerned and were relevant to our calculations.
These corrective measures led to a reduction of our estimated error rate by 1.1 percentage points (2013: 1.6 percentage points), which is about 1.6 billion euros.
Changes in the number of operations affected and the impact on our estimated error rate are no indication that the corrective measures are more or less effective: since these measures apply to a relatively small proportion of our sample, fluctuations are expected from year to year.
1.30.
The Commission considers that the Court's annual representative error rate should be considered in the context of the Commission's corrective capacity in the various annual activity reports and the synthesis report.
The Financial Regulation requires appropriate consideration of the risks associated with the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multi-annual nature of the control systems and the nature of the payments.
1.31.
Joint response to paragraphs 1.31 and 1.32: In the 2014 synthesis report (COM(2015) 279 final), the Commission estimated the future impact of corrective mechanisms to be EUR 2.7 billion, corresponding to 1.9% of payments from the EU budget.
For a breakdown of the figures by policy area see Table 1 in the synthesis report.
The Commission underlines that all types of financial corrections and recoveries exclude unlawful expenditure from the reimbursement from the EU budget (see explanatory note 6 on the financial statements).
(24) See points 1.19-1.37 of the Annual Report for the financial year 2012.
The Commission uses the terms 'financial corrections' and'recoveries' to cover a wide range of corrective measures applied both before and after the Commission's action (or reimbursement) of expenditure.
1.34.
Note 6.2.2 to the financial statements shows a total amount of EUR 3285 million for corrective measures for 2014.
Figure 1.7 shows how we map the corrections made at the various stages of the expenditure cycle.
A quarter of all corrective measures in 2014 consist of corrections and recoveries ‘which took place at the source', i.e. before the Commission carried out the related payment (25).
A further quarter will take the form of withdrawals and replacement of expenditure on cohesion projects (either during implementation or at the conclusion of operational programmes). 1.33.
The Commission considers that the terms ‘financial corrections' and ‘recoveries' are used in accordance with the legal framework laid down in the Financial Regulation and the relevant sectoral legislation.
Further detailed information on the various preventive and correction mechanisms provided for in the applicable legislation is provided in note 6 on the annual accounts of the EU and in the Communication on the protection of the EU budget.
(25) For the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund, the corrections reported in 2014 are ‘source EUR 430 million, 75% of which had already been made in previous years.
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/31 Figure 1.7 — Classification of the corrective measures taken in 2014 (*) Commission decisions (mostly in the field of agriculture), corrections leading to the cancellation of commitments in respect of closure and recovery of beneficiaries. (**) Reduction of reimbursement of costs and inclusion of new projects/costs during the implementation of the programmes and closures. (***) Corrections before payment in respect of shared management of appropriations, ineligible amounts and credits in respect of direct and indirect management of appropriations (recognised in note 6 as ‘recoveries').
Source: Explanatory note 6 on EU consolidated financial statements 2014 and underlying data.
For cohesion, the classification of amounts under the heading ‘Exclusion before payment' and ‘Reductions' is based on an analysis of the corrections made during the period.
OF THE COURT'S COMMENTS 1.35.
The corrective measures discussed in this section of the annual report shall also include the work of the Member States' authorities and the recovery operations carried out by the national authorities and the Commission.
C 373/32 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 10.11.2015 THE COMMENTS OF THE HOFES The impact of corrective measures is largely tangible at the time when the Commission accepts the expenditure 1.36.
All relevant sectoral regulations on shared management contain rules on primary controls to be carried out by national authorities or reductions in the amounts claimed by the final beneficiaries before the expenditure is certified.
In some cases, national authorities also agree to reduce or cancel certain costs, which, due to errors with long-term implications, appear constantly in the declarations (such as ongoing payments under a contract in which an error in the procurement rules exists).
Such adjustments can have a measurable impact on the amount of the refund requested for individual projects or on the aid paid to individual farmers and the correction will then help to reduce our estimated error rate.
1.37.
In the area of direct and indirect management, the ‘recoveries' covered by the Commission include the deduction of ineligible amounts in the cost applications prior to the approval of the payment.
The eligibility of the amounts shall be established on the basis of the examination of the file of the documents available or on the basis of the results of the checks carried out (see also Figure 1.7).
This also allows us to reduce our estimated error rate.
Conformity decisions ("financial corrections" in the agricultural sector) are often taken on a flat-rate basis.
In general, they relate to system deficiencies rather than to errors at the level of the final beneficiaries.
In the rarest cases, they result in recovery of the farmers concerned.
Such corrective measures are an incentive for Member States to improve their management and control systems.
They contribute to the legality and regularity of transactions at the level of the final beneficiaries and result in continuous improvements in the cost statements accepted by the paying agencies (see boxes 1.2 and 1.3).
The Commission services also carry out recoveries ‘at source' by deducting ineligible expenditure (as determined in previous or current cost statements) from payments made.
1.38.
Financial corrections made by the Commission on agricultural expenditure are intended to protect the EU budget and are imposed on the Member States.
They do not directly result in the recovery of farmers since the Commission does not pay the final beneficiaries directly but refunds the payments made by the Member States to the farmers.
However, if these incorrect payments are identifiable by the conformity clearance procedure, the Commission would expect the Member States to continue to pursue these payments by means of recovery measures against the beneficiaries.
See answer to Box 1.3.
Payers implement conformity decisions by reducing future applications for reimbursement by the Commission for payments to farmers.
The Commission shall record the full amount paid out to farmers as expenditure, i.e. the adjustment shall not entail a reduction in the amount of the payments recorded.
Instead, the difference between payments to farmers and refunds to the paying agencies is recorded as assigned revenue available to finance agricultural expenditure (26).
More than two thirds of the ‘financial corrections' in 2014 in the cohesion area consist of the replacement of new expenditures,...
1.40.
In the area of cohesion, ‘financial corrections' are cases where the authorities of the Member States reduce expenditure declared and replace expenditure by new expenditure, where more than two thirds of the total amount covered are covered.
In some cases, "reductions" no concrete projects can be recognised as being withdrawn.
Instead, Member States report additional projects and, in fact, receive a lower co-financing rate.
1.40. The Commission considers that any financial corrections, including those allowing Member States to introduce new projects and new expenditure to reuse the corrected amounts, to protect the EU budget from the illegal expenditure, and to encourage Member States to recover from the beneficiaries (and thus to contribute to the improvement of the management and control systems).
Nevertheless, the deterrent effect of net financial corrections, in which Member States cannot reuse the corrected and recovered amounts and thus lose the funds, is certainly higher.
(26) For example, if an agricultural paying agency is subject to a 5% financial correction and makes payments of EUR 100 million to farmers, the Commission will refund it EUR 95 million, but the Commission, for its part, will record EUR 100 million of expenditure, which is offset by an assigned revenue of EUR 5 million.
C 373/34 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION OF THE COMMENTS OF THE HOFE... while net corrections are made less frequently 1.41.
If a replacement is not possible, the corrections for the Member State concerned will result in a loss of EU resources(27), in which case, albeit a relatively rare one, may occur if Member States are unable to provide sufficient eligible expenditure and if a replacement is no longer possible (28) or allowed (29).
The Commission expects that, as a result of changes in legislation, net corrections will become more widely applicable in the future. 1.41.
Following the example of the agricultural sector, the legislator has decided to apply a similar mechanism of net financial corrections for the 2014-2020 programming period to cohesion policy.
This will give Member States an additional incentive to prevent or detect and remedy serious deficiencies in the management and control systems before the annual accounts are sent to the Commission.
Otherwise, and if serious deficiencies continue to be identified by the Commission or the Court after the financial statements have been sent, the Commission must, under the conditions laid down in the relevant regulations, make net financial corrections, which means that the resources for the Member State are lost.
The Commission also considers that, under shared management, all financial corrections and recoveries, irrespective of the method of implementation, have a negative impact on national budgets.
In order to avoid loss of EU funding, the Member State must replace non-eligible expenditure with additional eligible operations.
This means that the Member State with its national budget has to bear the financial consequences of the loss of EU co-financing of expenditure deemed to be ineligible, unless it recovers the amounts from the individual beneficiaries.
(27) Either as a reduction in payments or in the form of a return to the EU budget in the form of assigned revenue (see Figure 2.2).
(28) After completion of the programmes.
(29) In the event of disagreement between Member States and the Commission (see point 1.25(b) of the 2012 annual report).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION C 373/35 OF THE OF REMARKS OF THE HOFES In 2014, the Commission and the Member States applied all these forms of corrective measures 1.42.
Box 1.2 – Example of improvement of management and control systems — Greece: control of land identification system The Commission has taken action to improve the identification system for agricultural parcels (LPIS) as the basis for payments to agricultural holdings, such as the single payment scheme (the largest single EU expenditure scheme).
This process took place at various stages, leading to the decline of the ‘permanent grassland' covered by the Greek LPIS, from 3.6 million hectares in 2012 to 1.5 million hectares in October 2014.
Non-compliance with the requirements for permanent grassland, which is not eligible for EU aid, has been a key factor in our estimated error rate for natural resources for several years.
We took into account the impact of adjustments in respect of individual payments made to final beneficiaries, which were the subject of our sample of operations of the EAGF and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
Another effect is that the paying agency rejected many ineligible applications, which resulted in the corresponding expenditure falling out of our sample.
Box 1.2 — Example of improvement of management and control systems — Greece: cleaning of the area identification system Other examples of the positive impact of action plans are given by the Court in Chapter 7.
Action plans are implemented whenever deemed necessary and the Commission monitors their implementation with great care and reports on the corrective actions taken in the annual activity report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development.
The area identification system shall prevent beneficiaries from claiming claims for land which does not exist or which does not meet the eligibility criteria, or for land for which claims have already been made by another beneficiary.
If properly implemented, it is a very effective tool to reduce the error rate.
It covers 75% of CAP expenditure.
As shown in the 2014 Annual Activity Report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development, the error rates for area-related payments are lower than for other measures.
C 373/36 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 10.11.2015 EN REMARKS OF THE HOFES Box 1.3 — Example of the correction of compliance clearance procedures (30) — Compliance Decision 47 and its consequences for French farmers In 2014, France accepted an adjustment of EUR 1.1 billion (984 million for the EAGF and EUR 94 million for the EAFRD)(31).
The national authorities declared that this would have no impact on farmers and that the amount would be on the national budget.
In previous annual reports, we pointed out that such an approach does not encourage beneficiaries to address errors (32).
The main reasons for the correction were deficiencies in the LPIS/GIS (695 million euros) and the exceedance of the ceiling for payment entitlements, resulting in excessive payments to farmers (141 million euros).
Another reason was, albeit to a lesser extent, violations of the cross compliance obligation of timely notification of movements of animals (123 million euros).
All these reasons are related to payments made between 2009 and 2013.
No adjustment was made for 2014, and the non-compliance with the ceiling for payment entitlements and the non-eligible areas covered by France's LPIS contributed 0.3 percentage points to our estimated error rate for ‘Natural Resources' this year.
Box 1.3 — Example of adjustments of conformity clearance procedures — Conformity Decision 47 and its consequences for French farmers Under shared management, Member States are responsible for ensuring that the control systems function properly.
The EUR 1.1 billion financial correction will be repaid to the EU budget in three annual instalments (2015, 2016 and 2017).
The Commission notes that, due to the nature of the conformity clearance procedure that applies ex-post, after the clearance of the accounts of the year and after a counter-dicatory phase, in which the Member State in question can make its own reasoning and calculation, it is very rare that a financial correction is already decided in the following year of the expenditure in question.
An ongoing conformity clearance procedure will protect the EU budget for 2014.
Box 1.4 — Example of corrections that resulted in additional expenditure: ESF — Romania In our annual reports on financial years 2012 and 2013, we pointed to corrective measures in Romania.
In 2013, we were able to reduce our estimated error rate in relation to a number of Romanian projects of the European Social Fund (ESF), as the national authorities had identified the impact of the corrections at project level.
This was also the case in 2014.
Some of the projects we have studied continue to be in error due to problems not covered by the corrections.
In its Annual Activity Report for 2014, the Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion (DG EMPL) notes that it continues to follow the implementation of the agreed action plan.
The financial corrections made do not necessarily mean that Romania will receive less EU funding, as Member States can make use of the possibility to make use of a larger amount of expenditure (33).
(30) A multi-year procedure allowing recovery of amounts paid to Member States where such payments have contravened EU rules or where there are shortcomings in the Member State's management and control systems.
See also point 7.59.
(31) France subsequently appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Union against the decision to impose the financial correction.
(32) See points 1.26 and 1.32 of the 2012 Annual Report.
(33) This would in practice be equivalent to a reduction in the EU co-financing rate.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/37 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION OF THE REPLY OF THE COMMENTS OF THE HOFES In the reporting of corrective measures, the Commission does not always quantify their different effects,...
1.43.
Explanation 6 on the annual accounts is to a large extent a voluntary disclosure of information which is not necessary in accordance with the accounting rules.
A significant part of this information does not originate from accounting systems.
The explanation provides a description of the different impact of the different corrective adjustments on the EU budget, but not always in a quantified form.... and further improvements would allow a better analysis 1.44.
The Commission's capacity to improve the quality of expenditure is linked not only to the amounts concerned but also to their impact.
A rigorous assessment of the effects of corrective measures requires better information on the nature of the corrected error and on the way in which corrections are made (34).
When assessing the impact of their corrective action, the relevant Directorates-General of the Commission shall make the necessary adjustments to the figures given in note 6 (see point 1.55).
The Commission's synthesis report confirms an important error in operations 1.45.
Each Directorate-General of the Commission shall draw up an annual activity report.
This report includes — a report on the achievement of the main policy objectives (referred to in Chapter 3) — a management report of the Director-General to the College of Commissioners and — a declaration in which the Director-General ensures that the financial information contained in the report is accurate and that the transactions which fall within his/her area of responsibility are legal and regular.
1.43.
The legislator has provided the Commission with the instrument of financial corrections to ensure that illegitimate expenditure is not financed from the EU budget.
These financial corrections relate mainly to system defects which result in a risk of error.
It is the responsibility of the Member States and not of the Commission to determine the amounts to be wrong and to recover from the beneficiaries.
If this does not happen, EU funds will be replaced by national funds, as national budgets will have to bear the burden of the financial corrections.
1.44.
Several services have duly adjusted their figures on the protection of the EU budget set out in Note 6 in order to provide an estimate of future corrections in the light of their specific circumstances.
(34) See points 1.13-1.15 of the Annual Report for the financial year 2013.
The synthesis report contains a summary of this information and a statement that the Commission will assume overall political responsibility for the management of the EU budget by adopting the synthesis report.
1.47.
This section of the chapter contains the results of our analysis of the Annual Activity Reports of the Directorates-General and of the Commission's Synthesis Report(35).
The focus is on the consistency and adequacy of the Commission's estimates on — the error rate at the time of the Commission's reimbursement or the payment of own expenditure (the Commission refers here to ‘risk amount') — the extent to which errors are rectified by subsequent corrections (the Commission refers here to its ‘correction capacity' or ‘estimated future corrections' (36)).
The Directors-General report on regularity 1.48 annually.
If the Directors-General are unable to guarantee reliability to a significant part of the expenditure, they are making a reservation (see Box 1.5).
The Director-Generals should proceed in such a way that an event that has a serious impact on the reputation of the Commission, or, the impact of the estimated error rates, less financial corrections already made and recoveries, is still essential.
(35) The Commission's synthesis report and annual activity reports are available on the Commission's website: Synthesis report: http://ec.europa.eu/atwork/planning-and-preparing/synthesis-report/index_en.htm, Annual activity reports: http://ec.europa.eu/atwork/synthesis/aar/index_en.htm.
(36) See synthesis report, footnotes 10 and 13, pages 14 and 15.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/39 EN HOFES' COMMENTS Box 1.5 — Reservations in Annual Activity Reports 2014 In 2014, the Directors-General expressed a total of 20 quantified reservations in relation to 17 in 2013.
The increase in the total number of reservations is the result of three new reservations of the Directors-General of the Directorates-General for Communications Networks, Content and Technologies (DG CONNECT) (37) and Neighbourhood Policy and Enlargement Negotiations (DG NEAR)(38)(39) and the Service for Foreign Policy Instruments (FPI) (40).
In 2014, the amount of expenditure subject to reservation decreased from 2.4 billion euros in 2013 to 2.3 billion euros in 2014 (43).
1.49.
The European Parliament resolution on the 2013 discharge(44) calls on the Commission to "further clarify the calculation of the risk amount by explaining the estimated impact of correction mechanisms on this figure".
(37) Reservation concerning the Information and Communication Technologies Policy Support Programme (ICT) of the countries participating in the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP), as the residual error rate exceeds 2% (2.94%).
(38) reservation concerning indirect management by the beneficiary countries, since the residual error rate is above 2 % (2.67%).
(39) The problems identified in the 2013 annual report raised a new reservation on the basis of the reputational reasons of DG NEAR (former Directorate-General for Enlargement (DG ELARG), see point 7.16 of the 2013 annual report).
(40) Reservation on expenditure under the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP), since the residual error rate is above 2% (2.13%).
(41) The Directorate-General for Regional Policy and Urban Development (DG REGIO) divided its recurring reservation on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)/Cohesion Fund (CF)/Pre-accession Instrument (IPA) into two reservations, one on the ERDF/CF and the other on the IPA.
(42) The Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety (DG SANTE) has lifted its reservation as regards the programmes for the eradication and monitoring of animal diseases in the food and feed policy area.
(43) See synthesis report, Annex 2.
(44) Report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2013, Section III — Commission and executive agencies 2014/2075 (DEC) (A8-001/2015).
THE COMMENTS OF THE COURT 1.50.
In line with the request of the discharge authority, the Commission further developed its internal guidance (45) on the presentation of information in Annual Activity Reports in 2014.
The Directors-General are now to present an "average revealed error rate" (46).
The application of this error rate to total payments of the year results in the calculation of the ‘risk amount'(47).
The synthesis report shows this amount together with the estimate of the future correction capacity of the ex post controls carried out by the Commission. The Commission acknowledges that the expenditure is substantially affected by errors...
1.51.
In the 2014 synthesis report, the Commission identifies the ‘risk amount' as the range of EUR 3.7 to 5 billion.
This represents between 2,6 % and 3,5 % of the payments for 2014(48) covered by the synthesis report.
These figures show that total expenditure is significantly affected by errors....... however, points to the estimated impact of future corrections 1.52.
The 2014 synthesis report provides an estimated total of estimated future corrections (correction capacity).
On the basis of the corrections recorded during the last six years(49), the Commission estimates that it will be able to identify and correct errors of around EUR 2700 million in the coming years (50).
(45) Standing Instructions for the 2014 Annual Activity Reports (SEC(2014) 553).
(46) This is the detected or estimated error rate at the time of payment (not the residual error rate) i.e. without adjustment due to errors corrected afterwards.
