ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2007 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2008 ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 © European Communities, 2008 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
3 4–5 6–7 8–13 14–17 18–25 26–27 28–29 30–35 36–37 38–43 44–45 PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT'S PROCUREMENT, GUIDE VIEW, VALUES AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES ROLE AND WORK OF THE HIGH LOCATION STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION OVER THE REPORTS AND OPINIONS OF THE HIGH CONTINUATION AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE COURT'S PROCESSING IN 2007 AND THE PERSONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION IN THE YEAR 2007 AND THE HINAUS INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION CONTENT
PREFACE OF THE PRESIDENT 4 One of the Court's main objectives and part of its mission to promote transparency and accountability is to bring the Court of Auditors closer to EU citizens.
I am therefore delighted to welcome you as a reader of the first annual activity report of the European Court of Auditors.
The report aims to provide an overall overview of the Court and to give an account of its activities in 2007, the year in which it celebrates its 30th anniversary as an external auditor of the European Union, which, according to its mission, contributes to improving EU financial management and acts as an independent guardian of the financial interests of the Union's citizens.
The Court shall make its main contribution through its audits and reports, which enable the audited body to improve its financial management, and shall assist the discharge authority (European Parliament and Council) in its control of the implementation of the EU budget.
This report provides an overview of the audit reports published in 2007 and highlights the main conclusions regarding the implementation of the 2006 EU budget and the sound financial management of EU funds.
The Court not only reports on the financial management of past years, but also actively contributes to the establishment of an EU financial control framework.
2007 was a very important year for EU financial management.
The Court's position is outlined in the section entitled "The Court's position" on the Court's views on significant developments in the Member States' accountability and the Court's contribution to the public consultation on budgetary reform launched by the European Commission.
None of the Court's results in 2007 would be conceivable without the commitment, know-how and competence of its 850 staff.
Staff are the main capital of a future-oriented authority seeking constant improvement.
This first annual activity report provides details of the Court's reform process, which was launched in 2006 with a self-assessment.
Progress was made in 2007 in implementing the resulting Action Plan and a peer review procedure was launched at the end of the year, led by a group of auditors from the national audit offices of Canada, Austria, Norway and Portugal.
The first result of this reform process was the following statement on the Court's mission, mission statement, values and strategic objectives, which will guide the future activities that the Court will report on in due course.
I wish you much pleasure in reading the first annual activity report and I hope it will be of benefit to you.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5
6 PROCUREMENT, GUIDELINE, VALUES AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES PROCUREMENT GUIDELINE The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, he contributes to improving EU financial management while acting as independent guardian of the financial interests of the EU citizens.
7 VALUES Independence, Integrity & impartiality Professionalism Added value Excellence & efficiency Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and employees.
supply its addressee with appropriate test results, rejecting any form of influence by instructions or external pressure.
Maintaining a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
The preparation of relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the concerns of its addressees and containing important and indicative statements.
To contribute to an effective improvement in the management of the EU budget and to strengthening accountability for the management of EU funds.
Promote team spirit through effective communication.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES In order to fulfil its mandate, the European Court of Auditors has made known its views on the following strategic objectives: Professionalism Output Target group Further development & growth Consolidated audit methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards for EU funds, cooperation with the EU-ORCB, effective "Community control framework" selection of relevant audit topics, timeliness, clarity and legibility of reports, quality of economic assessments, increased impact of reports Deepening relations with audited bodies to improve understanding of the audit process and to achieve wider acceptance of audit results; strengthening contacts with the European Parliament and Council as budgetary and discharge authority; effective communication with EU citizens using experience with peer review procedures to strengthen and develop methods, results and maximum efficiency; pursuing an effective and dynamic personnel policy; quality of professional training; modernising infrastructure; implementing IT strategies
8 ROLE AND WORK OF THE HOFE WHAT ROLE HAS THE HOFE?
The European Union budget is around EUR 120 billion, representing about 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 Member States.
This represents a small proportion compared to national budgets.
However, for some Member States, EU funds play an important role in financing public activities, with the overall budget level almost equivalent to the GNI of some countries, such as Romania.
The composition of the budget has changed over time, with agricultural and cohesion policy being the main areas of expenditure (see Box 1).
The budget is established annually by the Council, i.e. representatives of the Member States, and the directly elected European Parliament on a proposal from the European Commission, on the basis of seven-year financial frameworks.
The Commission is responsible for the budget, but shares a significant share of the administrative tasks, particularly in terms of expenditure on agricultural and cohesion policy, with the Member States.
Depending on the expenditure regime, national authorities may be responsible for defining the expenditure strategies, selecting beneficiaries and projects and making payments.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on the beneficiaries' own applications, whether farmers or project managers throughout the Union.
9 BOX 1 – HOW DOES THE EU DISCOVER YOUR FIELD?
The EU budget is largely used for purposes other than national budgets, partly due to the different areas of responsibility.
For example, the Union is not responsible for social security systems, which usually account for a large part of national expenditure.
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, which usually takes the form of payments to farmers throughout the Union, has been the main component of budgetary expenditure, albeit at present with a decreasing trend.
In 2008, just under half of the budget is earmarked for the conservation and management of natural resources, mainly for agriculture and rural development.
Since the 1980s, a significant proportion of expenditure has been devoted to cohesion – regional and social development – to co-finance a wide range of projects, from road construction in Slovakia to training courses for the unemployed in Denmark.
In 2008, expenditure on sustainable growth, of which the lion's share of cohesion, was estimated at 38% of the budget.
This heading also covers a large part of the EU's research funding.
Some 6% of the budget is spent on the management of the Community institutions.
EU expenditure Citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1% The European Union as a global player 6% Administration 6% Cohesion – Sustainable growth 38% Agriculture – Conservation and management of natural resources 49%
Democratic societies need complete and correct publicly available information to provide a basis for discussion and decision-making, both in terms of improving financial management and ensuring accountability.
In its role as external auditor of the EU, the European Court of Auditors ensures that the EU funds have been correctly accounted for, regardless of their place of use, and spent in accordance with the legislation, taking due account of the best possible use of funds.
The Court's audit work is used by the Commission, Parliament and the Council and by Member States to improve EU financial management.
In addition to the Court's work, many national control authorities are examining EU funds, provided they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
Overview of internal and external control of EU budget EU level 10 Commission (DG, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing Bodies European Court of Auditors National control authorities National level External control Internal control
What are the audit findings of the Court? The Court applies three different types of audit to 1: audit of the accounts, compliance audit (compliance with legislation) and audit of the financial statements, depending on which of the three following questions is the starting point of the audit: 11 • • • Does the annual accounts provide an actual picture of the financial situation, results and cash flows for the year in accordance with the current accounting framework in all essential respects?
Under the EC Treaty, the Court is obliged to make such a statement – or an audit opinion – on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The annual Statement of Assurance is generally known under the French acronym DAS (Déclaration d'Assurance).
1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
The Court shall carry out its audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with International Audit Principles (ISAs) which are valid in both the public and private sectors.
The Court, together with the national control authorities, is actively involved in the further development of international audit standards promoted by the standardisation bodies (Intosai, IFAC).
In order to ensure that payments are consistent with the legislation and frameworks, the Court is based on the results of both its investigation of the monitoring and control systems, which are intended to prevent or detect errors of legality and regularity and to correct them, and a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
Where systems are reviewed and found to be reliable, the number of operations to be audited by the Court will be reduced in order to reach a sound conclusion as to their legality and regularity.
In selecting the topics for its audit, the Court seeks to identify areas of audit where the greatest impact is expected in terms of the potential for improvement identified in terms of the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of EU expenditure.
12 2 Intosai (International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions) International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions – IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) International Auditor's Association.
13 BOX 2 – THE PRE-FACE TESTS OF THE COURT IN RESPECT OF PAYMENTS RELATING TO THE EU BUDGET The Court does not have the resources to examine in detail all the operations of the EU budget.
The Court follows these processes to the final recipient of the aid, for example a farmer in southern Germany.
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks, such as the measurement of the size of the agricultural area, to determine whether the relevant information in the application for support is in line with the actual circumstances.
Population from all agricultural payments By being a statistical sample, the results can be extrapolated to the relevant population, i.e. a specific area of revenue or expenditure, and together with information resulting from the system evaluation can serve as the basis for an overall audit opinion.
This graph shows how the Court is proceeding to identify operations for the purpose of in-depth review.
In practice, the Court's sampling procedures are more complex, for example using a two-stage sampling procedure to improve the efficiency of the audit work.
Random outflow of a representative sample Payment to an agricultural holding in Germany €€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€
14 PROGRESS STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION BUILDING THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body of 27 members, each with one member per Member State.
As the Organigram shows (see page 17), there are four thematic audit groups covering different budgetary areas (preserving and managing natural resources – structural policies, transport, research and energy – external policies – own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies).
The fifth audit group (CEAD or coordination, communication, evaluation, quality assurance and development) is responsible for "horizontal issues such as coordination in the field of statement of assurance, quality assurance, development of the Court's audit methodology and the general dissemination of audit results and reports of the Court.
In addition, a Management Committee composed of members of all audit groups shall be responsible for the preparatory work of all administrative matters requiring a formal Court decision.
MEMBERS The members of the Court shall be appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament for a term of six years in accordance with the proposals of each Member State and shall be eligible for re-election.
In addition to its role within the College, which is responsible for final decision-making on audits and opinions, as well as on further strategic and administrative issues, each member is responsible for his or her specific tasks primarily in the audit area.
The member shall then present the report to the audit group or the Court and, after its adoption, to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested third parties.
With the accession of Bulgaria and Romania on 1 January 2007, the Court welcomed two new members, Ms Nadeschda Sandolova and Mr Ovidiu Ispir.
One year later, on 1 January 2008, the Court added three new members, Mr Michel Cretin (France), Mr Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) and Mr Harald Noack (Germany), as the term of office of its predecessors had expired.
The Council also extended the term of office of four members (Greece, the Netherlands, Austria and the United Kingdom) for a further six years.
Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCCKIEEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (EE) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri Grethen (BE) Henri Grethen (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVIČIA (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEGAN-QUIAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONČIČIČ (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALO MASANET (ES) Nadejda SANDOLOLOVA (RO (RO) MA) MA BB (B) BBJN (B) David BROTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTO
16 THE PRESIDENT The President is at the head of the European Court of Auditors, and the President is elected by the members from among them for three years, with re-election allowed.
The role of the President is that of a Primus inter Pares.
The President shall represent the Court in all its external relations, in particular in its relations with the discharge authority, with the other institutions of the European Union and with the supreme audit authorities of the Member States and beneficiary countries.
On 16 January 2008, Mr. Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, the Portuguese Member, was elected 11th President of the Court.
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL The Secretary-General is the highest-ranking member of the institution and is appointed by the Court for a period of six years, renewable.
The Secretary-General shall be responsible for the staff and material management of the Court, including professional training and the Translation Directorate, each with one unit per official language (22), excluding Gaelic.
The Secretary-General shall also be under the responsibility of the General Secretariat.
The term of office of the current Secretary-General of the Court, Mr Michel Hervé, was extended on 1 July 2007.
THE HOFES PERSON The staff of the European Court of Auditors shall be around 850 staff (836 on 31 December 2007) and shall comprise auditors (484), translators (162) and administrative staff.
The Court's auditors have a wide range of training profiles and relevant professional experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular in the fields of accounting, financial management, internal and external audit and legal and economic sciences.
Like the other EU institutions, the Court employs nationals from all Member States.
18 OVERVIEW OF THE AUDIT REPORTS AND 3 OPINIONS OF THE COURT The results of the Court's audits of the accounts and compliance audits are mostly incorporated in annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Funds (EDFs) and in the special annual reports on the Union agencies and bodies.
The results of the audit will be published in the course of the year in the form of special reports.
The Court also publishes opinions on draft legislative acts affecting financial management.
ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE 2006 FINANCIAL YEAR ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET As the Court has repeatedly stated in its annual reports on the implementation of the EU general budget, adequate and appropriate internal control systems are essential for ensuring proper EU budgetary management.
In recent years, the Court has recognised the Commission's efforts to promote and apply improved internal control and administrative procedures both in terms of the reliability of the EU's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions identified therein.
The 2006 Annual Report continued this tradition by identifying areas where – sometimes significant – needs for improvement and by identifying large areas of expenditure where the situation remains unsatisfactory.
The Court concluded that the ‘final accounts of the European Communities, which show the implementation of the EU budget for 2006, give a true and fair view of the financial situation and results of the Communities, except for the designation of excessive amounts of accounting liabilities and pre-financing in the balance sheet.
Further improvements are therefore considered necessary to ensure that the newly introduced accounting system is fully operational and that its potential as a reliable management and control tool can be fully exploited.
3 This section is intended to introduce the Court's reports and opinions and to provide a more general summary of their content.
More detailed information can be found in the full text of the Court documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after their adoption.
The Court's negative opinion on legality and regularity is based on the findings of the Court's audit of the expenditure areas identified in the ‘Final accounts of the European Communities', in which most payments are made, namely agriculture [mainly agricultural expenditure not covered by the Integrated Administration and Control System (IPCS), structural measures, internal policies and large parts of external policies, and concludes that these expenditure areas continue to be significantly affected by errors.
In the case of payments in these areas, the monitoring and control systems could only partially limit the risk of errors of legality and regularity in the transactions.
The Court stresses that complicated or unclear eligibility criteria or complex legislation have had a significant impact on the legality and regularity of the transactions.
However, the Court noted a significant decrease in the estimated overall error rate in agricultural operations and concluded that, where properly applied, the IACS is an effective system to reduce the risk of irregular expenditure.
Furthermore, the Court noted that the transactions underlying commitments and revenue did not have any significant errors, including payments related to administrative expenditure, the bulk of the pre-accession strategy and parts of external policies (see Box 3). 19
20 BOX 3 – SUMMARY OF THE LEGALITY AND ORDER COMPENSATION OF THE PROPOSALS SUBMITTED BY FIELD OF EXPENDITURE The table gives a summary of the overall assessment of the monitoring and control systems as described in the respective chapters of the 2006 Annual Report and provides a rough overview of the Court's audit results in relation to representative samples of operations.
The systems are classified as "partly satisfactory" if some control arrangements have been found to be functioning properly, while others are not.
As a result, they may not be able to contain the errors in the underlying operations to a tolerable level.
The report draws attention to some shortcomings in the "operation of monitoring and control systems".
The table only highlights the key points, but the details cannot be fully presented.
Readers are advised to take the full analysis from the main part of the 2006 Annual Report.
Specific assessments in the 2006 annual report Common agricultural policy Operation of monitoring and control systems Error margin Own resources Total IACOS CAP Not InVeKoS Not InVeKoS Structural policies Internal policies Central services and delegations External policies Pre-accession strategy Phare/ISPA implementing bodies Sapard Administrative expenditure Operation of monitoring and control systems satisfactorily partly satisfactory Unsatisfactory margin of error below 2% (below the materiality threshold) between 2% and 5% above 5%
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (EDF) In 2007, the Court also published an annual report on the European Development Funds (EDF).
While the Court was able to give an unqualified opinion on the reliability of the EDF accounts, the audit opinion on the legality and regularity of transactions underlying payments authorised under the responsibility of delegations in the beneficiary countries was limited in view of the substantial error rate in these transactions.
OTHER ANNUAL REPORTS In addition, 28 special annual reports on European agencies and other decentralised bodies and an annual report on the audit of the efficiency of the management of the European Central Bank were published in 2007. 21
SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 2007 The Court published nine special reports in 2007.
The reports covered investigations into financial management issues in many different areas, ranging from VAT cooperation (No 8/2007) to capacity building in countries as far away as Angola and Vietnam (No 6/2007).
The Court's tests revealed problems of various kinds with various consequences.
The weaknesses identified by the Court in relation to the EU institutions' expenditure on buildings (No 2/2007) show that not all EU funds have been used in this area in a meaningful way.
The shortcomings identified in the report on the monitoring, inspection and sanctioning systems concerning the rules on the conservation of Community fisheries resources (No 7/2007) could have serious consequences not only for aquatic resources but also for the future of the fisheries industry.
Despite the different types of use of funds in the various areas of the EU budget, the Court reports highlight several common issues which can be outlined as follows: 22 • • • Although the use of funds should be both swift and efficient, efforts to achieve these two objectives at the same time may create a tension.
This is the subject of the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No 1/2007) and the report on the Commission's management of the CARDS programme in the Western Balkans (No 5/2007).
Although planning does not guarantee effectiveness, it is of considerable importance.
Questions relating to strategic and long-term planning were raised in the reports on the expenditure of the EU institutions on buildings (No 2/2007) and on the evaluation of the EU Framework Programmes for Research and Technological Development (RTD) (No 9/2007) as well as in two reports on external assistance, one of which related to the CARDS programme (No 5/2007) and the other to the effectiveness of technical assistance in capacity building (No 6/2007).
The Commission's evaluations are a key element of its performance management system when assessing performance and demonstrating, where necessary, the need for improvement.
If evaluations take place at an early stage of the programming cycle, this means that progress is insufficient and that there is insufficient relevant data for evaluation purposes.
On the other hand, there may be a reduction in the possibility of making timely changes during the current period and improvements before the next one begins when evaluations are made at a later date.
The issue of the correct timing of evaluations was addressed in the report on the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds (No 1/2007) and in the report on RTD evaluation (No 9/2007).
23 • • Evaluation and audits are more difficult to carry out if the objectives of the expenditure programmes are unclear, which was another issue addressed in the latter two reports.
The management and control of EU expenditure is subject to complex regulations that must be clear and unambiguous in order to ensure that the funds are used for the purposes envisaged.
The existence of clear definitions and rules is crucial if funds are to be collected or used as planned.
This was the subject of the reports on the European Refugee Fund (No 3/2007) and on checks on goods and substitution of Member States when exporting agricultural products (No 4/2007).
The lack of common definitions is one of the factors which may affect the completeness, comparability and reliability of data from the different Member States.
This can have consequences if the data becomes the basis for decisions such as the allocation of funds.
24 Special reports Special report No 1/2007 Special report No 2/2007 Special report No 3/2007 Special report No 4/2007 Special report No 5/2007 Special report No 6/2007 Special report No 7/2007 Special report No 8/2007 Special report No 9/2007 Implementation of the mid-term processes of the Structural Funds 2000-2006 Building expenditure of the institutions Administration of the European Refugee Fund (2000-2004) Goods and substitution checks on exports of products for which reimbursement is granted Administration of the CARDS programme by the Commission Effectiveness of technical assistance in the framework of capacity-building Monitoring, inspection and sanctioning systems concerning the rules for the conservation of Community fisheries resources Administrative cooperation in the field of VAT Evaluation of EU framework programmes in research and technological development – Could the Commission improve its approach?
OPINIONS PUBLISHED IN 2007 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management by delivering opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
These opinions are required as part of the adoption procedure of financial provisions 4 or may be submitted at the request of one of the other institutions of the Community 5. Moreover, the Court may submit opinions on its own initiative.
The Court's opinions may address issues relating to certain areas of expenditure, such as the two opinions of 2007 concerning new regulations for the European Development Funds (Nos 2/2007 and 9/2007).
They may also cover broader issues of EU financial management, such as the Court's opinion on annual summaries, national declarations and the audit work of national audit bodies (No 6/2007).
Opinions are based on the Court's expertise in EU financial management over the years in its audits and in some cases reference is made to certain audits.
For example, in the opinion on ensuring the proper application of the customs and agricultural rules (No 3/2007), the Court refers to a recommendation in a previous special report that the Commission should take measures to improve the reliability of sources of information on fraud.
The need for simplification is a recurring issue in the Court's opinions (see Opinion No 7/2007 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities).
In a 2007 opinion (No 6/2007), the Court presented its position on the annual summaries and on the so-called national declarations submitted voluntarily by some Member States on their own initiative.
This opinion is discussed in more detail in the section entitled 'The Court's position'.
Article 279 of the Treaty.
Article 248(4).
Most of the Court's opinions have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union and are available on the Court's website.
26 CONTINUING AND EFFECTIVENESS Public financial control plays a key role in modern democratic societies in terms of efficient financial management.
The audit activities will be held accountable to the addressees at the end of the information chain, in this case to European citizens, whether their taxpayers' money is spent in a proper and appropriate manner.
In this respect, public financial control is a central element of accountability and a useful basis for public discussion.
In this respect, the Court's work has considerable potential for impact.
The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for decision-makers in the institutions concerned, in the European context, primarily the Commission, Parliament, the Council and the Member States.
On the basis of this information, they may take measures with or without reference to the conclusions of the examination.
Although the Court's audit activity has its main effect on its published reports, it has already had some effect throughout the whole process of the audit itself.
In particular, all the audits result in the presentation of detailed audit findings, which are sent to the audited body to confirm the accuracy of the Court's observations.
The final report text is also subject to a 'contradictory procedure'.
The responses of the body under review, namely the Commission, will be published together with the reports.
In the replies, the audited body often acknowledges the problems identified by the Court and sets out the steps it intends to take to remedy them.
After the audit work and publication of a report, the audit results will be evaluated and used by Parliament and the Council to carry out their political role of monitoring the use of the budget.
In the context of the annual discharge procedure, the Court reports form a basis for the Council's recommendation and Parliament's decision in this regard.
The 2006 discharge procedure paid particular attention to the conclusions of the Court in the field of structural policies.
In its 2006 discharge resolution, Parliament directly refers to an action plan proposed by the Commission as a direct consequence of the conclusions of the Court's annual report and calls for quarterly reports on the state of its implementation.
Parliament also calls for a better understanding of the corrective measures taken to address the errors and weaknesses.
The special reports are also taken into account in the discharge procedure.
However, given the fact that they are published during the year, the presentation of the special reports and the debate on them have usually taken place at an earlier stage in the meetings of Parliament and the Council.
A good example of a possible follow-up is provided by the recent special report on building expenditure (No 2/2007).
Indeed, Parliament has already entrusted its administration with the preparation of a report examining whether it would be feasible to create a European Construction Office, to which responsibility for the construction and maintenance of the buildings of the institutions and bodies of the European Union is delegated.
The Court's audit report on controls carried out by Member States on the export of agricultural products (No 4/2007) can be given as a further example.
The Council and the Commission responded promptly to the recommendations made by the Court by amending the existing legislation.
The impact of the audit reports can be enhanced by their thematicisation in the relevant media, which will raise awareness and stimulate public debate.
The media are the most immediate source of information for citizens.
As a rule, the Court's annual report is fairly comprehensive, but some special reports have also been followed with interest by the press.
The fisheries report (No 7/2007) has received a lot of media attention.
An extraordinary Fisheries Council was convened to discuss the Court's report and the Commission initiated a procedure which may result in amendments to the legislation to remedy the shortcomings identified.
This is an example of a report that has made a particularly valuable contribution to the decision-making process because of its relevance and timeliness.
This section provides some guidance on the impact of the Court reports published in 2007.
More details on the follow-up to previous observations of the Court are given in the respective chapters of its annual report.
The Court's most frequently stated remark in its last annual report is that, despite the measures taken, the shortcomings identified in the previous year have been only partially corrected.
Opinions should also be considered when considering the impact of the Court's work.
The Court intends to analyse increasingly the long-term impact of its work – both audits and opinions.
This can be illustrated by the example set out in Box 4.
27 BOX 4 – THE OPINION OF THE COURT ON ‘SINGLE VERIFICATION' Over the years, the Court has published several opinions highlighting ways to develop the general internal control system for the EU budget.
The opinion on the "Single Audit" (No 2/2004) in 2004 has made a significant contribution to this end.
In this opinion, the Court proposes to embed the definition and implementation of all internal control into a single integrated control framework, which includes common principles and objectives and ensures that costs and benefits are proportionate.
The opinion on the ‘Single audit' developed into a reference document for the Commission, but also for the Court, for example in 2007 in its comments on the definition of effective and efficient internal control in the updated implementing rules of the Financial Regulation (Opinion No 1/2007).
The integrated audit approach is reflected in the Commission's 2006 Integrated Internal Control Framework Action Plan.
The Commission has taken steps to emphasise the role and responsibilities of Member States in the field of internal control, including the new obligation to submit annual summaries of audit opinions, declarations and audits carried out in accordance with the regulations applicable to each area of expenditure.
28 THE POSITION OF THE HIGH NATIONAL SUMMARY AND DECLARATIONS The Commission and Member States have launched initiatives to increase the involvement of Member States in the accountability cycle for EU funds.
The aim is to address in part the problem of the major error rates in terms of legality and regularity, which are found in the main areas of expenditure in the budget, particularly in those areas where the Commission and Member States share the management of resources.
Significant recent developments include the obligation for Member States to submit annual summaries of available audit results and declarations, the voluntary initiatives of some Member States to make national declarations and the decision of some national control authorities to prepare audit reports on the management of EU funds.
In its opinion No 6/2007, the Court considers that, where properly implemented, all these elements could lead to improved management and control of EU funds.
The opinion sets out the conditions under which these elements can provide added value and can be used by the Court in compliance with international audit principles.
As annual summaries form part of the internal control system, the Court will assess, in its usual audit procedures, the extent to which they improve the functioning of internal control.
Annual summaries can lead to better overall control of EU funds in areas of shared management, insofar as they highlight strengths and weaknesses.
National declarations are based on voluntary initiatives by certain Member States and are made at the highest level and submitted to national parliaments.
Although they do not form conclusive audit evidence in themselves, they can be seen as a novel element of internal control and provide valuable information on the implementation of the EU budget.
The Court recognises the potential benefits of national declarations and audit work in raising awareness in Member States of the importance of internal control of EU funds.
The audit work of the national control authorities (national audit reports) in relation to the legality and regularity of EU expenditure or national declarations could provide audit evidence to the Court if it can verify the usefulness and quality of the audit work in accordance with international audit principles.
In this case, the Court will take into account the audit reports issued by national control authorities when planning and carrying out its own audits.
National declarations and national audit reports contain statements on control systems.
National declarations may also contain certain audit judgments on the legality and regularity of the transactions.
Experience shows that the main risk to the legality and regularity of transactions is the reliability of the information provided by beneficiaries when applying for EU funds, rather than the way in which this information is processed by Member States and the Commission.
The declaration that systems work as required in EU regulations cannot alone guarantee the legality and regularity of the transactions concerned.
Recognising the need for a stronger role of national control authorities in the overall context of accountability of EU expenditure, the EU's Contact Committee of Supreme Audit Institutions has set up a working group on the harmonisation of audit standards and standards specifically tailored to the EU context.
Joint audit approaches and methods increase the Court's ability to rely on the work of national control authorities, provided that the quality of this work is directly demonstrated.
REVIEW OF THE EU BUDGET In September 2007, the Commission published a consultation paper to launch an open debate on EU finances as part of a far-reaching budgetary review.
The Court presented its contribution to the debate at the beginning of April 2008 in which it identified the main principles to be taken into account in the design of new programmes, so that they would provide European added value in terms of clarity of objectives, the pursuit of simplification, the sense of reality, transparency and accountability.
Among other things, the Court recommended taking account of the following aspects: • • • • orientation of expenditure programmes not after input but after output; better use of the concept of acceptable risk in the design and adoption of expenditure programmes; degree of discretionary discretion to be granted to national or regional authorities in the management of expenditure programmes and the accounting for them; consideration of whether VAT own resources still form a useful part of the own resources system, with a view to reviewing all the compensatory mechanisms that are guided by the guiding principles of the own resources system – justice, transparency, cost-effectiveness, simplicity and contribution capacity of each Member State. 29
30 THE WORK OF THE HOFE IN 2007 AND IN THE CHAIR: MR HINAUS IN 2007 The Court shall present its future audit work annually in a work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and available to the public on the Court's website.
The Court monitors the implementation of the work programme as a basis for improvements in subsequent years.
In 2007, the number of adopted special annual reports on European agencies and other decentralised bodies increased significantly.
The number of special reports and opinions was similar to those of previous years.
The annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Funds have been published as planned.
Results (number) 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special reports 10 6 11 9 Annual reports (including EDF) 1 1 1 1 Special annual reports 23 20 23 29 Opinions 2 11 8 9 In 2007, the Court first applied its new assurance model (audit security model) in the field of audit of accounts and compliance (compliance audit) in order to achieve sufficiently robust results in the most efficient way possible.
The Court also decided to provide more detailed information on the results of its Statement of Assurance, in particular on the results of the audit of individual operations.
The Court considers that this will provide useful information for monitoring purposes, together with a schematic presentation of the results of the system evaluations, to enable the progress in the area of financial management to be measured.
ACTION PLAN AND PEER-REVIEW PROCEDURE The Court is constantly seeking improvements in all aspects of its work.
In 2005, the Court decided to submit to a peer review procedure.
In this context, senior staff of a small number of Supreme Audit Institutions assess the organisation or results of a sister institution in accordance with professional standards and in the light of their respective professional experience.
As all Supreme Audit Institutions have comparable tasks, peer review procedures can make a very valuable contribution to improving audit bodies.
In 2006, the Court carried out a self-assessment in preparation for the peer review procedure, in which the institution was given the opportunity to explore its strengths and weaknesses.
In 2007, the Court adopted an action plan to address the weaknesses identified.
The plan comprised 23 measures, six of which were the subject of task forces involving Court members and staff from different areas and hierarchy levels of the institution: 31 1. Mission statement, mission, strategic objectives and planning 2. Management structure (management), structure and organisation 3. Internal performance indicators 4. Employees and internal communication 5. External stakeholders and communication approaches, external communication strategy 6. Improving reporting quality The results of these task forces presented in 2007 included new declarations on mission, mission statement and values, as well as strategic objectives for the Court, a new strategy and guidelines for internal communication and a report on ways to improve reporting quality. The peer review process started at the end of 2007.
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE IMPROVEMENT OF AUDIT A number of the strategic objectives adopted concern the output of the institution.
The Court strives to make the impact of its audits more visible by selecting relevant topics, timeliness and a clearer and more readable presentation of its reports.
It has also started to increase the number of its economic assessments and improve their quality.
In 2007, considerable efforts were made to further develop the methodological basis of the Court's work as an essential prerequisite for high-quality audit work.
A new handbook for auditing accounting and compliance audits was developed with a high workload, which is to be completed in 2008.
The new Court's audit manual was adopted at the end of 2006 and was therefore available for the first time as guidance to the auditors in 2007.
Additional guidelines were developed and several seminars and training sessions were held to further improve the quality of the Court's work in the field of economic impact assessment.
The Court also set new ambitious targets for the use of information technologies.
In the new IT strategy adopted in 2007, the Court intends to expand its capacity to carry out IT audits and to make the use of computer assisted audit techniques (CAATs) into common practice in accounting and audit audits.
It is important that the quantity and quality of the farm's output can be properly assessed.
The Court is developing performance indicators which should enable it to provide a wide range of performance data in future annual activity reports.
For the future, the Court plans to develop a methodology for assessing the cost-effectiveness of the institution. 32
33 30th anniversary of the Court In 2007, the European Court of Auditors celebrated its 30th anniversary as an external audit body of the European Union.
The celebrations began with an increased presence of the Court (seminars, information stands, etc.) in most capitals of the European Union as part of the activities of the 2007 European Day.
In addition, an exhibition was opened on 17 October 2007 under the motto "30 years of the Court of Auditors", which included a series of thematic display boards, a sound picture show with more than 150 photos and video excerpts and numerous documents.
The Luxembourg Central Bank issued a silver commemorative coin for this occasion.
On 18 October 2007, the European Court of Auditors organised a seminar entitled "The future of public financial control in the EU", attended by a number of high-level experts from EU circles and the institution's executives.
IMPROVING UNaudit-related ASPECTS AT THE HOF Many of the tasks set out in the Action Plan concern communication, which was given increased attention in 2007.
Among other things, a new website was put into operation and information material on the annual report was published in a more accessible format, and the Court agreed to a new procedure for presenting its special reports to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.
Other developments, mostly directly or partly related to the Action Plan, concerned the modernisation of the Court's accounting system and new strategy documents in the areas of staff and IT.
The Court also started to modernise its information systems in the areas of audit, translation, knowledge and communication, management information and staff.
In addition, in 2007 the Court made progress in preparing for a second extension of its main building, which is necessary due to the recent and planned increase in staff.
AUDIT WORK TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN 2008 7 As in previous years, the Court will present, in addition to its annual report on the EU general budget, an annual report on the European Development Funds and special annual reports on European agencies and other bodies.
The expenditure under the EU general budget is planned in seven-year cycles, so-called financial frameworks.
2007 was the first year of the new financial framework, focusing on the implementation of policy strategies.
The Court takes this opportunity to look more closely at a previous innovation, namely the Commission's transition to activity-related budgeting and activity-related management, and the budget structure of 31 policy areas with around 220 activities.
The annual report for the financial year 2007 is broken down by policy group, largely but not entirely in line with the new headings of the financial framework.
Box 5 provides a breakdown by audit group of the selected audit tasks that are completed or close to completion and on which special reports are expected to be published in 2008 or early 2009.
34 7 For more detailed information on the future work of the Court, see the Court's 2008 work programme on our website (www.eca.europa.eu).
35 BOX 5 Conservation and management of natural resources Implementation of the milk quota scheme in the Member States that joined the EU on 1 May 2004 Management of EU support measures for public cereals storage Clearance of accounts procedures in the field of the common agricultural policy Structural policies, transport, research and energy Audit and evaluation of major investment projects in the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods The EU Solidarity Fund – How quickly, effectively and flexibly does it work?
The Intelligent Energy – Europe programme (2003-2006) The effectiveness of expenditure under Structural Fund measures for wastewater treatment in the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods The Structural Instrument for Pre-Accession (ISPA) 2000-2006 Are executive agencies an appropriate instrument for implementing the EU budget?
External policies European Commission rehabilitation assistance after the tsunami and Hurricane Mitch Effectiveness of EU support to Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice Own resources, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies, internal policies Binding tariff information (CCTAs) How do the Union agencies achieve results? Bank operations in the Mediterranean Commission treasury management When selecting new audit tasks, the Court has used a number of priority issues to which particular attention will be paid in 2008.
36 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION COOPERATION WITH THE EU'S NATIONAL ACCOUNTS INSTITUTIONS Pursuant to the EC Treaty, the Court of Auditors has carried out its audit in ‘links with the Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities (ORCBs), while the Treaty of Amsterdam has subsequently added: ‘The Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies are working together with confidence while maintaining their independence.' This arrangement has been extended in the Treaty of Nice by the fact that the Court of Auditors was specifically invited in the 18th Declaration of the Final Act to establish a Committee for contacts with the national audit bodies, in which all the Presidents of the SAIs and the Court meet annually to discuss matters of common interest.
The ongoing contacts are maintained by liaison officers appointed by the individual SAIs.
Working groups have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2007, a delegation from the Court attended the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the European Union SAIs in Helsinki, organised by the Finnish Court of Auditors on 3 and 4 December.
The meeting focused on risk management, acceptable risk and integrated internal control system in the management of EU funds and was used to discuss the role of SAIs in this area.
The Court will host the next meeting of the Contact Committee on 1 and 2 December 2008.
Two liaison officers meetings were held in 2007 to prepare the Contact Committee meeting.
The first meeting was held in The Hague on 23 and 24 April and the second on 11 and 12 October in Luxembourg, chaired by the European Court of Auditors.
The two meetings discussed recent developments in EU financial management and examined the work of the Task Force on Cooperation, which deals with the Contact Committee itself, its working methods and possibilities for improvement, in this context proposals for a more efficient way of working.
The meeting also covered the activities of the various working and expert groups set up by the Contact Committee to deal with specific issues of common interest.
The Court attended meetings of the network of candidate countries and candidate countries ‘in spe' (Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Turkey).
The Presidents of the SAIs of the candidate countries and candidate countries "in spe" and the European Court of Auditors met in Skopje (former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia) on 11 and 12 June 2007.
An important aspect of all efforts to improve practical cooperation in the audit of EU funds concerns the audit principles used.
Against this background, in 2006 the Contact Committee decided to set up a working group chaired by one of the Court's members, Mr Josef Bonnici, to "consist of common auditing standards and comparable auditing standards based on internationally recognised auditing principles and adapted to the EU context".
The first meetings of the European Court of Auditors were held in Luxembourg in 2007.
In December 2007, a progress report was submitted to the Helsinki Contact Committee and a resolution was adopted.
OTHER INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court continued its active participation and participation in the improvement of international auditing principles through its membership of European and international organisations for public financial control bodies, namely Eurosai and Intosai.
Within the framework of the Eurosai, the Court is represented in the Environmental Working Group and the IT Working Group and participates in the Eurosai Training Committee.
The Court hosted a seminar on "Analysis of the SAI's most common IT problems in Luxembourg on 17 and 18 April 2007 and a seminar entitled "Economic Audit – Where do we stand?" from 4 to 6 December 2007.
Since the Court became a full member of Intosai in 2004, it has been actively involved in the Subcommittee for Guidelines for Auditing Accounting (FAS), the Subcommittee for Auditing Compliance with Legal Standards (CAS) and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits (PAS).
The Court attended all FAS meetings held in 2007 and provided active input to the guidelines published and discussed.
The FAS named the ERH representative (Mr Jesús Lázaro Cuenca) as one of the FAS representatives for the project of the Steering Committee of the Committee on Technical Standards on Quality of Examination. In addition, the Court attended the CAS meeting in January 2007 in New Delhi.
In addition, the Court's Translation Directorate provided resources for the linguistic revision of a document in Spanish and German.
The Court also attended the XIX Intosai Congress (Incosai) in Mexico from 5 to 10 November 2007, which discussed two main issues: "State debt, its administration, accountability and audit", and "Evaluation systems of economic efficiency based on generally accepted key indicators – targets and performance indicators."
In 2008, the Court will continue its active participation in the working groups, seminars and meetings of Eurosai and Intosai.
37 Contact Committee in Helsinki, December 2007
38 PERSONAL PERSONAL POLICY The Court's main capital is its staff.
They have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the output of the Court.
In its recent modernisation of staff policy, the Court has focused on recruitment, training, career development and improving working conditions.
SHARE OF MEN AND WOMEN As of 31 December 2007, the proportion of men and women in active employment (officials and temporary and contract staff, but without members, seconded national experts and trainees) was almost the same.
As shown in the graph below, the proportion of women employed at the Court has increased since 2001 as a result of the Court's efforts to achieve a balanced gender balance.
Men and women among the Court's staff 46 % 12/2001 54 % WOMEN MEN 50 % 12/2007 50 %
The following graph presents an analysis of the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2007.
Like the other European institutions, the Court pursues a policy of equal opportunities in terms of human resources management and recruitment and recognises the need to promote the promotion of a greater number of women to the higher management levels of the Court.
13 of the 56 directors and department/referee heads (23%) are women, an increase of 3% compared to 2006.
Most of them are employed in the Directorate for Translation and the Administrative Services.
12/2006 12/2006 M 67 % F 20 % 12/2006 12/2007 M 77 % 12/2006 M 80 % 12/2007 12/2007 M 64 % F 23 % 39 F 68% M 32 % M 62% W 68% F 68 % Councillors – Secretaries (AST level) F 33 % F 36 % REPRESENTATION OF WOMEN MEN Councillors – Secretaries (AST level) Financial Audit/Administrative Boards (AD level) Directors and Division/Head of Division Financial Audit/Administrative Boards (AD level) Directors and Division/Head of Unit The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and employment conditions of the EU institutions, and staff are both civil servants and temporary staff.
In 2007, the Court hired 179 employees: 117 officials, 35 temporary staff and 27 contract staff.
This high figure reflects the progress made in 2007 in filling vacancies.
The recruitment depends on the availability of reserve lists of EPSO competitions and the number of candidates; the procedure is sometimes rather lengthy and has the consequence that there is an exceptionally high number of vacancies.
The Court is constantly seeking to reduce the time limits for recruitment.
ALTERSPROFILE – CARRIER OPPORTUNITIES The following graph shows that the Court is a ‘young' organ (63% of employees are under 44 years of age).
Among the 102 Court staff aged 55 or over, 27 of the 56 directors and department/office heads are present, which means that there will be extensive new posts in the senior management levels over the next five to ten years.
40 38 68 94 114 81 147 149 ALTER 25-29 45-49 30-34 50-54 35-39 55-59 40-44 20-24 > 60 153 AUDIT SHEET During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to Member States and other recipient countries of EU funds to obtain appropriate audit evidence.
The visits are usually carried out by central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and payment of EU funds, as well as by the final beneficiaries.
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors and the length of an audit trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of audit and the distance.
In 2007, travel expenses related to audit trips amounted to EUR 0.49 million (compared to EUR 0.43 million in 2006).
This represents a significant investment to ensure a sufficient audit coverage of all levels and locations of EU funds management.
The graphs below give an overview of the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in 2007 in the EU Member States and outside the Union.
Examination trips to Member States in 2007 50 40 30 20 10 0 Examination trips to candidate countries and other non-Member States in 2007 4 3 2 1 0 41 Serbia and Montenegro Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Germany Portugal Italy Spain Belgium Greece Czech Republic France United Kingdom Denmark Netherlands Ireland Finland Austria Poland Lithuania Hungary Bulgaria Sweden Slovenia Slovakia Romania Latvia Malta Russia Moldova – Ukraine Lesotho – Swaziland Guinea Tunisia Indonesia Bosnia and Herzegovina Albania Togo Sri Lanka Sudan Niger Nicaragua Morocco Madagascar Mali Kenya Ghana
In 2007, the Court's staff completed on average 12 days of professional training.
The proportion of specialised training activities increased significantly compared to 2006.
The main developments in the field of training include the introduction of training courses on the Court's audit manual and related guidelines, the Commission's accounting rules, the use of accounting in accordance with the rules of the period (ABAC), SAP financial systems and other IT and IT audit applications.
Language courses accounted for 52% of the total number of training days in 2007.
The Court has adopted a training framework for 2008-2011, which will provide for the development of continuing vocational training in the coming years, with one of the main priorities being the implementation of personal development plans for individual employees.
The Court also examines the possibility of introducing a European Public Sector Auditor Diploma (PSAD).
Box 6 provides a portrait of the staff of a selected unit or department within the Court to give the reader a picture of the work carried out, the staff involved, their background and work experience. 42
43 BOX 6 – THE FISHERIES REPORT – RESULT OF A REGIONAL TEAM PERFORMANCE The Court's 2007 report on monitoring, inspection and sanctioning systems in the fisheries sector (Special Report No 7/2007) attracted considerable attention both among policy-makers and in the media.
Articles in numerous newspapers and the rapid reactions both to the Commission and the Council demonstrated the relevance and relevance of the report.
The starting point for this success was a team of a dozen Court auditors who worked closely with the rapporteur member, Mr Kikis Kazamias, and his cabinet.
Mr Emmanuel Rauch, a French examiner who has been working at the Court for several years, and his Spanish colleague Mr Alejandro Ballester were the team leaders of the audit during the preparatory phase in autumn 2005.
The audit included trips to six Member States, from Denmark to Italy, both to central administrative authorities to gain insight into control systems, and to major ports to assess how systems work in practice.
Insofar as the language skills of the team members were insufficient, translators from the language service of the Court provided assistance.
The audit team is very proud to have contributed to the gradual recognition by policy-makers of the serious consequences of the way in which the Community fisheries policy is implemented.
Other audit authorities have also shown interest in the audit, as it provides suggestions and know-how for example for an upcoming audit on a similar subject in the Baltic Sea countries.
From left to right, from bottom to top 1st row Alejandro BALLESTER GALLARDO, Financial Audit Board (ES – 5 years at the Court); Kikis KAZAMIAS, Member of the Court (CY – 3 years at the Court); Riemer HAAMADA, Head of Unit (NL – 30 years at the Court); Emmanuel RAUCH, Chief Financial Audit Board (FR – 14 years at the Court).
Second series Jean-Marc Daniele, Cabinet Attaché (FR – for 5 years at the Court); François OSETE, Head of Cabinet (FR/ES – for 23 years at the Court); Robert MARKUS, Chief Audit Board (NL – for 13 years at the Court); Bertrand TANGUY, Audit Board in the Court (FR – for 3 years at the Court); Pietro PURICELLA, Principal Audit Board (IT – for 11 years at the Court).
3rd series Anne POULSEN, Superior Translator (DA – 16 years at the Court); Maria del Carmen JIMENEZ, Chief Auditor (ES – 15 years at the Court); Cécile RAMIREZ, Secretary Assistant (FR – 5 years at the Court); Neophytos NEOPHYTOU, Cabinet Attaché (CY – 3 years at the Court); Krzysztof ZALEGA, Financial Audit Board (PL – 4 years at the Court).
Other team members (not on the photo) Valéria ROTA, Financial Audit Boardlor (IT – for 8 years at the Court); Adeline DOMINGUES, Secretary Assistant (FR – for 8 years at the Court); Juha VANHATALO, Financial Audit Board (FI – for 3 years at the Court); Paul STAFFORD, Head of Unit (UK – for 18 years at the Court).
44 FINANCIAL INFORMATION BUDGET The Court's budget accounts for around 0.1% of the EU's total budget and 1.8% of the administrative appropriations of the EU institutions and bodies.
The last three years have seen an increase of 17%.
This increase is primarily linked to the consequences of EU enlargements in 2004 and 2007.
A further significant increase in the Court's budget for construction activities (the funds for buildings practically doubled between 2006 and 2008) is to be seen, as future newly recruited staff will be accommodated in a second extension building (K3 building), the completion of which is planned for 2013.
Staff resources account for around 72% of the total budget in 2007.
BUDGET 2006 2007 2008 Use of appropriations Final appropriations (in EUR 1 000) Members of the institution 11 350 11 270 12 061 Officials and temporary staff 77 907 82 583 88 712 Other staff and external services 4 223 4 014 4 248 Mission expenses 3 100 3 000 3 212 Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 1 923 2 056 2 286 Title 1 – Total 98 503 102 923 110 519 Buildings 6 287 8 126 12 110 Computer and telecommunications 4 575 5 518 5 879 Equipment and furniture: purchase, hire and maintenance 1 320 1 396 1 147 Current expenditure on operations 807 435 425 Meetings and conferences 352 872 876 Information and publications 1 353 1 810 1 813 Title 2 – Total 14 694 18 157 22 250 Court of Auditors – Total 113 197 121 080 132 769
INTERNE REVISION SERVICE The Internal Audit Service of the Court is intended to assist the Court in the implementation of its objectives by systematically assessing risk management, internal control and administrative procedures.
The Internal Audit Service also makes proposals to increase the efficiency of the Court.
In general, the aim is to assess the performance of individual services in the implementation of strategies, programmes and measures with the aim of continuous improvement.
In 2007, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused on auditing the accounts (including support for the Court's external auditor's work), audit of the ex ante audit, implementation of internal control standards, the Court's recent extension (the so-called K2 building) and the Court's recruitment procedures.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and one external expert, shall monitor and ensure the independence of the Internal Auditor.
It shall also examine and approve the work programme and the internal auditor's reports and, if necessary, entrust them with specific audit tasks.
The Committee met eight times in 2007.
The Court's opinion of 28 September 2007 on the Court's external auditor for the financial year 2006 states: "We believe that the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the Court's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2006 and of the economic results for the financial year ending on that date, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and its implementing rules, the generally accepted accounting principles and the internal rules of the Court of Auditors.
OJ C 292, 5.12.2007.
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2007 Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities 2008 – 45 pp. – 21 x 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8
The Publications Office has a worldwide network of sales agents. You can obtain their contact details by sending a fax to (352) 29 29-42758. http://eca.europa.eu/portal/page/portal/eca_main_pages/splash_page
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS OFFICE FOR OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES L-2985 LUXEMBOURG ISBN 978-92-9207-003-8 QJ-AA-08-001-EN-C
ISSN 1684-0666 THE ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT FOR 2008 European Court of Auditors
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT FOR 2008
2 Europe Direct is a service to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Freephone number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Certain mobile telephone operators do not allow access to 00 800 numbers or these calls may be billed.
Luxembourg: Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, 2009 ISBN 978-92-9207-202-5 © European Communities, 2009 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Belgium PRINTED ON WHITE CHLORINE-FREE PAPER
PREFACE OF THE PRESIDENT The Court of Auditors, as an independent audit body of the EU, makes a unique contribution to improving EU financial management and promoting transparency and accountability by providing audit services and acting as a role model.
The Court's 2008 report has been characterised by a significant number of significant progress and important developments in EU financial management, which is further discussed in this Annual Activity Report.
A significant event was the peer review of the European Court of Auditors, which led to a positive conclusion on the usefulness of the Court's audit management framework and on the independence and objectivity of its work.
In its 2007 annual report published in November 2008, the Court issued its first full opinion on the reliability of the EU's accounts.
As in previous years, however, it found too high a percentage of errors in legality and regularity in the areas of the EU budget, which accounts for the bulk of expenditure.
In 2008, the Court also recognised developments at EU and national level which should lead to significant improvements in EU financial management in the future.
Two examples of this Annual Activity Report are the ongoing process of reviewing the EU budget to which the Court has made an active contribution and the Commission's Communication on the tolerable risk of error.
In the field of international relations, the Court was the lead in organising the discussions of the European Union's Chief Audit Institutions Contact Committee (ORCB) on EU budget reform and the revised Lisbon Strategy, as well as hosting a recent workshop on the role of the EU ORCB in the context of the measures taken to address the current financial crisis.
As its audit environment is undergoing rapid change, the Court sees itself in a position to adapt through internal reforms in order to better fulfil its obligations under the Treaty and to fulfil its mandate effectively.
A significant step the Court took in 2008 to implement its mission and mission was to develop an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012.
The audit strategy is based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of the audits and improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
These objectives will be decisive in the Court's work programmes over the period and in its efforts to continuously improve and exploit the main challenges and opportunities identified in the peer review process in terms of exploiting potential for improvement.
Thanks to its competence and commitment, the Court's staff have a central role to play in carrying out the audit work carried out by the Court as an independent guardian of the financial interests of citizens in order to improve financial management.
On behalf of the Court and on my own behalf, I would like to thank all the staff for their commitment and professional work last year.
Special thanks are due to our former Secretary General, Mr Michel Hervé, who resigned at the end of 2008.
I wish you a pleasant reading of this Annual Activity Report, which provides an insight into the Court and an overview of the activities carried out in 2008.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 5
PROCUREMENT, GUIDELINE AND VALUES PROCUREMENT The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
GUIDELINE An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, which is recognised for its integrity and impartiality, its professionalism, quality and impact, and which provides valuable support to its audience in improving EU financial management.
VALUE Independence, integrity and impartiality Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and its employees.
Professionalism Respect a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Added value Creation of relevant, timely high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of its addressees and containing important and guiding statements.
Excellence and efficiency Recognition of the value of the individual, support in the further development of special skills and reward of performance.
ROLE AND WORK OF THE HOFE IN THE WORK OF THE HOFE IS THE EU'S BUDGET The European Union's budget amounts to around EUR 120 billion, representing about 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 Member States.
However, for some Member States, EU funds play an important role in financing public activities, with the overall budget almost equivalent to the GNI of some Member States.
The European Union's revenue consists mainly of contributions from Member States derived from their gross national income (GNI – 65.4%) or based on VAT collected by Member States (VAT – 16.9%).
Customs duties and agricultural duties (the so-called traditional own resources – 16.5%) also constitute a substantial part of revenue.
The composition of the budget has changed over time, with agricultural and cohesion policy being the main areas of expenditure (see Box 1).
BOX 1 
The EU budget is financed by financial contributions from Member States (mainly on the basis of national GNI) and from customs duties and agricultural duties.
The EU budget is largely used for purposes other than national budgets, partly due to the different areas of responsibility.
For example, the Union is not responsible for social security systems, which usually account for a substantial part of national expenditure.
Since the 1960s, agricultural expenditure, which is usually paid to farmers throughout the Union, has been the main component of budgetary expenditure, albeit at present with a decreasing trend.
In 2009, 45.3% of the budget for the conservation and management of natural resources, mainly for agriculture and rural development, is earmarked.
Since the 1980s, a significant proportion of cohesion expenditure has been spent, i.e. regional and social development, on co-financing of a wide range of projects, from road construction projects in Poland to training for the unemployed in Spain.
For 2009, expenditure on sustainable growth is set at 39.6% of the budget, with the lion's share of cohesion measures.
This budget also covers the bulk of the EU's research funding.
In addition, EU funds will be channelled to a significant amount of development aid and humanitarian aid, as well as to countries that have close relations with the Union or are candidate countries.
6.7% of the budget is spent on the management of the Community institutions.
Citizenship, freedom, security and justice The European Union as a global player Administration Agriculture – conservation and management of natural resources 45.3% 1.2% 7.2 % 6.7% EU expenditure Cohesion – sustainable growth Source: European Union general budget for the financial year 2009 (OJ L 69, 13.3.2009). 39.6%
The budget is established annually by the Council, i.e. by representatives of the Member States, and the directly elected European Parliament on a proposal from the European Commission, on the basis of seven-year financial frameworks.
The Commission shall draw up the budget and shall also be responsible for its implementation.
The bulk of the budget, particularly in the area of expenditure on agricultural and cohesion policy, is implemented in cooperation with the Member States.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on the beneficiaries' own applications, whether farmers or project managers throughout the Union. 8
Democratic societies need complete and correct publicly available information to provide a basis for discussion and decision-making, both in terms of improving financial management and ensuring accountability.
The EU and its Member States have an external audit body, which has the role of independent guardian of the financial interests of citizens.
In its role as external auditor of the EU, the European Court of Auditors ensures that the EU funds have been correctly accounted for, regardless of their place of use, and spent in accordance with the legislation, taking due account of the best possible use of funds.
The Court's audit work will be used by Parliament, the Council and the Commission and by Member States to improve EU financial management.
The Court's work is an important basis for the annual discharge procedure, during which Parliament, on the basis of Council recommendations, decides whether the Commission has fulfilled its responsibility for budget implementation in the previous year.
Despite its name, the Court has no judicial powers.
In the shared management budgetary areas, Member States shall cooperate with the Commission in the establishment of monitoring and control systems, i.e. internal control, to ensure that the funds are used in accordance with the rules and regulations.
Internal control thus has a European and a national dimension.
In addition to the Court's work, many national control authorities are examining EU funds, provided they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
9 OVERVIEW OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROL OF THE EU BUDGET EU level Internal control External control Commission (DGs, Internal audit service) European Court of Auditors Member States Implementing bodies National control authorities National level
(Economic Audit) HOW does the COURT REPORT ON ITS RESULTS?
The Court shall publish the results of its audit work in the following types of reports: annual reports – with the results of the audit of the accounts in the form of a statement of assurance on the implementation of the general budget2 and on activities under the European Development Funds3.
Special annual reports – with the results of the audit of the accounts of the agencies and bodies of the Communities.
Special reports – with the results of selected economic and compliance audits.
10 1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
2 Under the EC Treaty, the Court is obliged to make such a statement or an opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
In this context, the underlying transactions are usually payments to the final beneficiaries to the EU budget.
The annual Statement of Assurance is generally known under the French acronym DAS (Déclaration d'Assurance).
Unlike practice in the Member States, the Court makes such a statement on the EU budget as a whole.
3 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are based on international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States)
The Court shall carry out its audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with International Audit Principles (ISAs) which are valid in both the public and private sectors.
However, the existing international auditing principles do not fully cover the Court's compliance audit.
The Court, together with the national control authorities, is actively involved in the further development of international audit standards, which are being promoted by the standardisation bodies (INTOSAI, IFAC)4.
In order to ensure that payments are consistent with the legislation and framework, the Court is based on the results of its investigation of the monitoring and control systems, which are intended to prevent or detect errors of legality and regularity and to correct them, as well as a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
Where systems are reviewed and found to be reliable, the number of operations to be audited by the Court will be reduced in order to reach a sound conclusion on their legality and regularity.
Other sources, such as the work of other auditors, are also used to support the Court's conclusions.
In the case of economic audits, the Court uses a variety of audit methods to assess the management and monitoring systems and to assess performance data based on the criteria derived from the legislation in view of the principles of sound financial management.
In selecting the subjects for its economic audits, the Court seeks to identify areas of audit where the greatest impact is expected in terms of the potential for improvement identified in terms of the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of EU expenditure. 11 was concluded, as well as decisions by the Council on the association of overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to the ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see External Relations, Development and Enlargement) and partly through delegations in the beneficiary countries.
The EDF investment facilities are managed by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and are not subject to the Court's audit mandate.
4 INTOSAI (International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions) International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions – IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) International Auditor's Association.
12 BOX 2 
In connection with the preparation of the DAS, it therefore uses statistical sampling methods to obtain a result representative of the population as a whole.
The sample selection shall be carried out by random selection of a representative sample of the underlying transactions from all areas of the Union budget, such as agriculture, for detailed examination.
The Court shall monitor these operations until the final beneficiary of the aid, such as a farmer in France.
The Court then carries out on-the-spot checks – e.g. measuring the size of the agricultural area – to determine whether the relevant information in the application for support corresponds to the actual circumstances.
The fact that this is a statistical sample allows the results to be extrapolated to the population concerned, i.e. a specific revenue or expenditure area, and together with information resulting from the system evaluation to serve as a basis for an overall audit opinion.
In practice, the Court compares the results of its statistical sample audits with a certain upper limit which it considers acceptable – the so-called materiality threshold – to determine how the audit opinion should be rejected.
Random selection of a representative sample Payment to an agricultural holding in France Population of agricultural payments
THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS' GUIDANCE STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body of 27 members, each with one member per Member State.
All audit reports and opinions shall be adopted by the College.
The Court is divided into five audit groups to which individual members are assigned.
The Organisation Chart (see page 17) shows that there are four thematic audit groups covering different budgetary areas (preserving and managing natural resources – structural policies, transport, research and energy – external policies – revenue, banking activities, administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies).
The fifth audit group (CEAD or coordination, communication, evaluation, quality assurance and development) is responsible for "horizontal issues such as coordination in the field of statement of assurance, quality assurance, development of the Court's audit methodology and the general dissemination of audit results and reports of the Court.
In addition, a Management Committee is responsible for the preparatory work on all administrative matters requiring a formal decision by the Court.
MEMBERS The members of the Court shall be appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament for a term of six years in accordance with the proposals of each Member State and shall be eligible for re-election.
Members shall perform their duties in full independence for the general good of the European Union.
In addition to its role within the College, which is responsible for final decision-making on audits and opinions, as well as on broader strategic and administrative issues, each member is responsible for his or her specific tasks primarily in the audit area.
The actual examination work is usually the task of the examiners in the individual examination departments and is coordinated by the respective member with the support of his cabinet.
The member shall then present the report to the audit group or the Court and, after its adoption, to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested third parties.
On 1 January 2008, three new members – Mr Michel Cretin (France), Mr Harald Noack (Germany) and Mr Henri Grethen (Luxembourg) – replaced their respective predecessors after their term of office.
The Council also extended the mandate of four members – Mr Hubert Weber (Austria), Mr Maarten B. Engwirda (Netherlands), Mr David Bostock (United Kingdom) and Mr Ioannis Sarmas (Greece) – for a period of six years.
The President is the head of the European Court of Auditors, and the President is elected by the members from among them for three years, with re-election allowed.
The President shall represent the Court in all its external relations, in particular in its relations with the discharge authority, with the other institutions of the European Union and with the supreme audit authorities of the Member States and beneficiary countries.
On 16 January 2008, the Portuguese member, Mr Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira, was elected tenth President of the Court. 14
THE SECRETARY-GENERAL The Secretary-General is the highest-ranking member of the institution and is appointed by the Court for a period of six years; re-election is permitted.
The Secretary-General shall be responsible for the staff and material management of the Court, including professional training and the Translation Directorate, each with one unit per official language (22), except Irish.
The Secretary-General shall also be responsible for the Court's secretariat.
The former Secretary General, Mr Michel Hervé, left the Court on 31 October 2008.
On 9 October 2008, Mr John Speed was appointed Secretary General of the United Nations.
On 10 March 2009, the Court appointed Mr Eduardo Ruiz García as new Secretary-General with effect from 16 March 2009. THE HOFES PERSONAL OF THE HOFES The budget for the financial year 2008 provides for 858 posts for the European Court of Auditors (as at 31 December 2008).
The Court's auditors have a wide range of training profiles and relevant professional experience in both the public and private sectors, in particular in the fields of accounting, financial management, internal and external audit and legal and economic sciences.
Like the other EU institutions, the Court employs nationals from all Member States, subject to the EU Staff Regulations.
15 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2009 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCCKIEEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri Grethen (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVIČIA (2000) (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOHEGAN-QUINN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONČIČ (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALLO MASSAMAS ANANET (ES) HANDIABD BLOBLOBRO (SO) JALBROS (SOSOSOSOSOSOSOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTOTO
OVERVIEW OF AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS5 ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE 2007 FINANCIAL YEAR ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET The annual accounts give a true picture of the financial situation and the results of the EU in all essential respects.
The restrictions set out in last year's annual report on the reliability of the accounts for the financial year 2006 are no longer valid due to the improvements made for 2007.
In some areas, such as Union administrative expenditure, the Court gives full audit opinions on legality and regularity.
However, the Court cannot give an unqualified opinion on most expenditure areas.
Although most of the Court's audited payments have been made in accordance with the legislation, the Court still considers that the error rate in payments to final beneficiaries, such as farmers and promoters of projects financed from EU funds, is too high.
With the exception of cohesion measures with an error rate of at least 11%, the Court estimates that the error rate in these themes is between 2% and 5%.
In some areas of expenditure, particularly those previously covered by internal and external policies, the estimated error rate has fallen but not so much that it would change the overall picture.
The result does not mean that these infringements of legislation are due to fraud or that most of the transactions in these areas are illegal and/or illegal.
THE SITUATION IN CERTAIN AREAS In three areas – administrative and other expenditure, economic and financial affairs and revenue – the Court's audits of representative samples of operations have revealed low estimated error rates.
In the Union's largest expenditure area – agriculture and natural resources – the estimated overall error rate remains significant.
Rural development, with its often complex rules, accounts for a disproportionate proportion of this error rate.
For the expenditure of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), the value of the error rate estimated by the Court is just below the materiality threshold of 2%.
As in previous years, cohesion measures, which account for more than one third of the budget, are the most flawed area.
The Court's sample estimate of the proportion of error-related transactions should not have allowed at least 11 % of the total amount of the refunds.
5 This section is intended to introduce the Court's reports and opinions and to provide a more general summary of their content.
For more information, see the full text of the Court documents published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) after their adoption.
19 WAGES TO IMPROVE MONITORING AND CONTROL The high error rate in areas such as cohesion is partly due to the inherent risk of the high number of beneficiaries applying for EU funding under complex regulations and legislation.
The shortcomings in the design and functioning of the systems also contribute to the shortcomings identified.
Most programmes financed by EU funds contain provisions on corrective measures which provide for the recovery of funds unduly paid out due to errors on a multiannual basis.
However, no information is available on the impact of these measures.
This means that it is not possible to determine in concrete terms whether they effectively reduce the proportion of illegal and/or irregular expenditure.
The Commission has been working since 2000 on a reform programme to improve the management of the EU budget, which includes an action plan from 2006.
By the end of 2007, the Commission had implemented two thirds of the sub-measures under the Action Plan.
However, it is too early to assess the impact of these measures.
Improved high-level controls – such as the Commission's monitoring of Member States' control activities – do not compensate for inadequate controls at lower levels, such as on-the-spot checks.
However, the benefits of increased on-the-spot checks must be weighed against costs.
The Court recommends that the Union's political authorities define the appropriate level of risk of error.
In order to reduce the error rate in EU payments, the Court recommends simplifying rules and legislation, streamlining internal control measures and improving monitoring and reporting.
20 BOX 3         INGLEWORDS FOR THE LEGALITY AND ORDER OF THE PROPOSALS SUBMITTED BY FIELD OF EXPENDITURE The table gives a summary of the overall assessment of the monitoring and control systems as described in the respective chapters of the 2007 Annual Report and provides a rough overview of the Court's audit results in relation to representative samples of operations.
The systems Specific assessments in the annual report for 2007 Cohesion: 42 billion euros Agriculture and natural resources: 51 billion euros External aid, development and enlargement: 6 billion euros Research, energy and transport: 4.5 billion euros Education and citizenship: 1.5 billion euros Administrative and other expenditure: 8 MilliaSrdAePnAERuDro Economy and finance: 0.5 billion euros Revenues Evaluation of monitoring and control systems The range in which the error rate (FQ) lies is "partly satisfactory" when some control arrangements have been found to be working properly, while others are not.
THE 2007 AUDIT JUDGMENT ON THE EDF The annual accounts of the European Development Funds (EDF) give a true and fair view of the financial situation and results of the EDFs in all essential respects.
The audit opinion on the legality and regularity of EDF operations is limited in respect of payments.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORTS In addition, 28 special annual reports on European agencies and other decentralised bodies were adopted in 2008.
21 BOX 4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 2008 The Court published a total of twelve special reports in 2008.
In order to improve the readability and usability of its reports, the Court decided to publish its special reports in a new format and to make them available directly on its website (www.eca.europa.eu), with only a reference to their publication in the Official Journal.
As in previous years, the reports related to investigations into financial management issues in many different areas, ranging from the efficiency of the European Solidarity Fund (No 3/2008) to the European Union support measures for public cereals storage (No 11/2008).
The Court's audits revealed problems of a wide range of kinds with various consequences and resulted in recommendations for improving financial management and for increasing efficiency and effectiveness.
The selection of subjects for and their design is at the Court's discretion and is based on criteria such as risk analysis, potential for improvement and public interest.
In its 2008 Special Reports, broken down by thematic area, the Court provided answers to the following questions: conservation and management of natural resources • Did the procedure for establishing national milk quotas in the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 provide a sound basis for the timely establishment of operational management and control systems?
(No 3/2008) • Did the Commission have the Intelligent Energy Europe Programme (to promote energy efficiency, use of renewable energy sources and diversification of energy supply) planned, monitored and evaluated and had a positive impact on the management of the programme by the executive agency responsible for implementing the programme? (No 7/2008) • Was there an adequate preparation and a uniform strategy for ISPA (structural instrument for preparing for accession, one of the instruments for supporting the candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe in their preparations for accession in the period 2000-2006)? Have the ISPA projects been implemented as planned and contributed to the compliance of the beneficiary countries with the EU environmental directives and to the improvement of the trans-European transport network?
External policies • Has the Commission adequately identified the rehabilitation needs of the tsunami and hurricane Mitch affected and has the assistance been implemented in a timely and efficient manner? (No 6/2008) • Has EU support for the new neighbouring countries (Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine) directly adjacent to the EU improved their administrative capacity in the areas of border control, migration and asylum management, the fight against organised crime, and justice and good governance following the 2004 and 2007 enlargements?
What were the causes of below-average performance and how much did the Commission have to learn to use lessons learned to further support this area? (No 9/2008) • Was EC development aid effective for health care in sub-Saharan Africa (under the EC's commitments to poverty reduction and to achieve the Millennium Development Goals)?
If the financial and human resources allocated to the health sector were in line with the EC's political commitments, has the Commission been able to speed up the implementation of this aid and how effectively has the Commission used various instruments to support the health sector?
(No 10/2008) Revenue, banking activities, Community administrative expenditure, Community institutions and bodies and internal policies • Has the system of binding tariff information, which aims to promote the uniform application of customs policy and ensure the correct level of customs duties, been effectively applied (appropriate and in line with the legislation)? (No 2/2008) • Has EU regulatory agencies been able to implement the EU's main administrative and financial reforms to move towards results-oriented management?
If the agencies had planned their actions sufficiently, had they established reliable monitoring tools for their activities and adequately reported on their activities and had they conducted sound assessments of their results? (No 5/2008) 24
25 SPECIAL REPORTS PUBLISHED IN 20086 No 1/2008 No 2/2008 No 3/2008 No 4/2008 No 5/2008 No 6/2008 No 7/2008 No 8/2008 No 9/2008 No 10/2008 No 11/2008 No 12/2008 Procedure for the examination and evaluation of major investment projects of the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods (OJ C 81, 1.4.2008) Binding tariff information (CCTAs) (OJ C 103, 24.4.2008) The European Union Solidarity Fund: How quickly, effectively and flexibly is it working?
(OJ C 185, 22.7.2008) How do the Union agencies achieve results? European Commission rehabilitation aid following the tsunami and the Hurricane Mitch Intelligent Energy – Europe programme (2003-2006) Is the cross compliance regime effective?
Effectiveness of EU support to Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine in the area of freedom, security and justice EC development assistance for health care in sub-Saharan Africa Management of European Union support for public cereals storage Structural Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (ISPA), 2000-2006 6 These special reports are available on the Court's website or can be obtained by electronic order form via the EU Bookshop.
OPINIONS PUBLISHED IN 2008 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management by delivering opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
These opinions are required as part of the adoption procedure of financial regulations7 or may be delivered at the request of one of the other institutions of the Community8.
The Court may also submit opinions on its own initiative.
The Court's opinions may address issues relating to certain areas of EU expenditure, such as the amendment of the Financial Regulation of the European Aviation Safety Agency (No 1/2008), or issues relating to the EU's revenue, such as the amendment of the Regulation on the Community's own resources system (No 2/2008).
Opinions are based on the Court's expertise in EU financial management over the years in its audits and in some cases reference is made to certain audits or opinions.
For example, in its opinion on the new financial regulation of the European Joint Undertaking for ITER (International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor), the Court refers to its annual report on the 2006 financial year, which had already drawn attention to high risks regarding the legality and regularity of payments for research aid.
26 7 Article 279 of the EC Treaty.
8 Article 248(4) of the EC Treaty.
27 OPINIONS ADOPTED IN 20089 Opinion No 1/2008 Opinion No 2/2008 Opinion No 3/2008 Opinion No 4/2008 Opinion No 5/2008 on the proposal for a decision of the Management Board of the European Aviation Safety Agency amending the Agency's financial rules on a proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1150/2000 implementing Decision 2000/597/EC, Euratom on the system of the Communities' own resources (OJ L 347, 31.12.2000, p.
CONTINUING AND EFFECTIVENESS Public financial control plays a central role in promoting accountability and contributes to public debate.
The audit activities will be held accountable to the addressees at the end of the information chain, in this case to European citizens, whether their taxpayers' money is spent in a proper and appropriate manner.
The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for decision-makers in the institutions concerned, in the European context, primarily to Parliament, the Council, the Commission and the Member States.
On the basis of this information, they may take measures with or without reference to the conclusions of the examination.
Although the Court's audit activity has its main effect on the published reports, it has already had some effect throughout the whole process of the audit itself.
In the replies, the audited body often acknowledges the problems identified by the Court and sets out the steps it intends to take to remedy them.
After the audit work and publication of a report, the audit results will be evaluated and used by Parliament and the Council to carry out their political role of monitoring the use of the budget.
The Court's reports form a basis for the Council's recommendation and Parliament's decision in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
29 Examples of this can be found in the 2007 discharge procedure, which calls on the Commission and the Member States to make efforts to simplify and clarify the rules in order to reduce the risks of error, streamline controls and reduce costs.
This applies to areas with shared management – such as expenditure on agricultural and cohesion measures – as well as to areas with direct management – such as expenditure on research or on culture and education.
The special reports are also taken into account in the discharge procedure.
However, due to the fact that they are published during the year, the presentation of the special reports and the debate on them have usually taken place at an earlier stage in the meetings of Parliament and the Council.
The impact of the audit reports can be enhanced by their thematicisation in the relevant media, which will raise awareness and stimulate public debate.
As a rule, the Court's annual report is fairly comprehensive, but some special reports have also been followed with interest by the press.
One example is the special report on cross compliance (No 8/2008), which has been published at the moment for the adoption of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) health check.
The importance of cross-compliance and its central role within the CAP, and the timing of publication, led to a broad response in the various media: television, newspapers, specialist press, Internet publications (press, agricultural associations, MIP websites, web blogs, etc.).
The report was also discussed in detail in the European Parliament and almost all the Court's recommendations were taken up in the draft discharge report.
More details on the follow-up to previous observations of the Court are given in the respective chapters of its annual report.
The Court's most frequently stated remark in its last annual report is that, despite the measures taken, the shortcomings identified in the previous year have been only partially corrected.
The Court intends to analyse increasingly the long-term impact of its work – both audits and opinions.
As an example, the Court uses a Commission database with follow-up to its audit recommendations as a basis for assessing the impact of its audits.
The assessment may lead to separate in-depth audits leading to further findings and recommendations.
These may be incorporated into a subsequent special report on the area concerned or be included in a report on the follow-up and impact of recommendations on financial management.
The Court's view in its Opinion No 2/2004 on the development of a Community internal control framework is that it is for the political authorities to decide on the level of risk they are willing to accept when approving EU spending arrangements.
The Court proposed that Parliament and the Council agree on an appropriate balance between the costs and benefits of controls, in other words the tolerable residual risk of expenditure errors.
The costs of controls should be proportionate to the benefits they have provided in monetary and political terms.
Since the publication of this opinion, both the European Parliament and the Council have expressed their desire in their discharge resolutions to pursue the issue and to achieve a common understanding of the tolerable level of risk.
At the end of 2008, the Commission issued a Communication entitled Towards a common understanding of the concept of tolerable risk of error.
The Court welcomed this communication and sent the Commission a response, which identified certain limits and outlined the main aspects to be considered in the future follow-up to this issue.
In its Communication, the Commission states that any decision on a tolerable risk of error should be based, inter alia, on the potential for further simplification.
The Court also highlights the importance and benefits of further simplifications and the potential impact on the reduction of errors or irregularities.
The concept of "tolerable risk of error" must be clearly separated from the concept of materiality threshold as defined and applied by the Court, which is the responsibility of the external auditor10.
The Court considers that the cost-benefit analysis of spending programmes could provide information not only for discussions on the tolerable risk, but also for the review of the regulatory framework and the management structure of the programmes concerned.
In this context, the relevant question may not be whether there is a tolerable risk of error, but whether the risk of error is so high that the scheme or programme concerned should be abolished/set or fundamentally modified.
Specific attention should also be paid to the concept of tolerable risk when designing expenditure (and revenue) schemes or programmes.
It would be useful if, at the time of adoption, sufficient information were available on the risks involved and the costs of the controls envisaged to reduce these risks to an acceptable level.
This would make decisions in the knowledge of the facts and take explicit account of the risks and costs involved.
The process of budgetary reform may provide an opportunity to reflect on this issue, as the Court suggested in its response to the Commission communication entitled "Reforming the budget, changing Europe"11.
31 10 The term "essentiality" is defined in the international audit principle ISA 320 as follows: "Information is essential if its omission or incorrect presentation could influence the economic decisions taken by financial addressees on the basis of a financial statement.
Materiality depends on the size of the item or error resulting from the special circumstances of omission or incorrect representation.
Thus, materiality is more a threshold or a limit value and less a primary qualitative requirement that information must have to be useful.
The Court shall present its future audit work annually in a work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and available to the public on the Court's website.
The number of special reports and opinions in 2008 was similar to those in previous years.
Results (number) 2008 Opinions 5 2004 2005 2006 2007 Special reports 10 6 11 9 12 Annual reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 1 Special reports 23 20 23 29 28 2 11 8 9
Audit strategy The audit strategy is based on the Court's strategic objectives.
33 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Professionalism Output Target group Further development and growth Consolidated audit methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards for EU funds, cooperation with the EU-ORCB, effective "Community control framework" selection of relevant audit topics, timeliness, clarity and legibility of reports, quality of economic audits, increasing the impact of reports Deepening relations with audited bodies to improve understanding of the audit process and to achieve wider acceptance of audit results Strengthening contacts with the European Parliament and Council as budgetary and discharge authority Effective communication with EU citizens Use of experience with peer review procedures to strengthen and develop organisation, methods, procedures and results and to achieve maximum efficiency Pursuing effective and dynamic staffing policies High quality professional training; modernising infrastructure Implementation of IT strategies CIAL OF THE TEST STRATEGY 2009-2012 Maximising the impact of the audits as a whole Improving efficiency by making best use of resources
The Court's audits and reports aim to contribute to improving EU financial management and protecting the EU's financial interests for EU citizens.
The following key aspects are taken into account in formulating the strategy relevant to the Court's activities: EFFICIENCY EFFICIENCY Reports Audit work Work programme In 2008, the Court developed an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012 to implement its mission and mission statement.
A summary of this document is available on the Court's website.
The Court's strategy is based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of the audits and improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
These objectives will be decisive in the Court's work programmes over the period and in its efforts to improve continuously.
The Court aims to maximise the overall impact of its audits over the period concerned by: • selecting and designing audits focusing on issues from risk areas and of the greatest interest to the Court's audience; • continuing to provide sound audit conclusions and useful suggestions for improvement and monitoring whether these proposals are being implemented; • carrying out a wider range of audits and presenting new types of audit products that complement the current annual and special reports; • producing a larger number of special reports and improving their timeliness and ease of use; • developing its relations with its main addressees, including the relevant parliamentary committees, as well as with the media and the general public.
These include: • better management; • effective and dynamic staffing policies; • rationalisation of audit tasks; • improvement of IT tools; • strengthening of expertise; • strengthening relations with audited bodies. 34
AUDIT WORK TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN 200912 As in previous years, the 2009 Work Programme includes the preparation of annual reports setting out the results of the audit of the accounts to be carried out by the Court in accordance with the EC Treaty and other EU legislation.
For 2009, the Court identified a number of audit issues concerning policy developments and issues relating to EU financial management.
As regards developments in EU policies, the following topics were selected: • growth and employment; • climate change and sustainable development; • Europe as a global partner; • better regulation.
The Court also highlights the following issues in the area of EU financial management which it considers to be of particular importance: • Completion of expenditure programmes for the period 2000-2006, in particular in the area of the Structural Funds; • Accountability and reform of the EU; • Progress in the Commission's action plan for an Integrated Internal Control Framework, taking into account the concept of tolerable risk; • Management and control measures at Member State level.
The Court's aim is to address these issues from 2009 onwards in the context of its annual reports, special reports and some new types of reports (see comments below).
The Court intends to publish a series of special reports and related novel reports, drawn up on the basis of the audit tasks it has selected.
The planning and implementation of these selected audit tasks and the reporting of these tasks are usually over a period of more than one year.
Therefore, most reports published in a given year are based on audit work undertaken in previous years.
Box 5 contains the selected audit tasks that are completed or are pending completion and the results of which are therefore expected to be published in special reports in 2009 or early 2010.
35 12 A more complete and detailed overview of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2009 Work Programme, which is available on its website (www.eca.europa.eu).
Follow-up to the recommendations is an important tool for the Court to actively contribute to improving financial management.
The report will include an analysis of the extent to which our recommendations have been followed and, where appropriate, an assessment of the effectiveness of the measures taken.
It is expected to be published at approximately the same time as the annual report. — The other new type of report the Court intends to present is a report on high risk areas in the context of EU financial management.
The report is aimed at the new Commission, which will start work towards the end of the year, and will serve as a guide.
DEVELOPMENT AND IMPROVEMENT ACTION PLAN AND PEER-REVIEW PROCEDURE In 2006, the Court carried out a self-assessment in which its strengths and weaknesses were identified.
An action plan to address the weaknesses was subsequently drawn up.
The Action Plan included a number of measures which led the Court to adopt • set out its mission, mission, strategic objectives and strategic planning; • develop internal performance indicators which will be gradually introduced (see section below); • adopt an internal communication strategy which will be implemented and which will open up new channels for better dissemination of information within the institution; • take various measures to improve the quality of its reports, for example by providing a new graphic design to improve readability and external assessments; • adopt a strategy to be implemented gradually to improve the Court's relations with its addressees, the press and the general public.
In 2009, the Court will seek to take up the comments and recommendations of the international peer review report on the European Court of Auditors, published in December 2008, which is an important stage in the Court's ongoing reform process.
The peer review was carried out by representatives of the national control authorities of Canada, Norway, Austria and Portugal.
The peers carried out their work in 2008 and in this context also contacted the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.The final report was presented at the end of 2008.
The purpose of the peer review procedure was to assess the design and functioning of the framework set by the Court for the audits.
The audit covered the following areas: • planning and audit procedures for audit of accounts and audit of accounts; • reporting on audit results; • services supporting the Court in achieving its objectives.
The peer review team concluded that the design of the audit framework set by the Court is in line with international auditing principles and good practice for the Supreme Audit Authorities.
The Court also found that • the Court performs its activities independently and objectively; • the Court's audit reports were based on sufficient and appropriate audit evidence as provided for in international audit principles; • the persons concerned had high confidence in the Court's reports and generally considered them fair, objective and objective.
The Court welcomes the constructive comments and recommendations made by peers, which highlight ways of further strengthening their role as the Supreme Audit Authority and the challenges it poses.
This includes the need to develop a culture that focuses on a common approach of the Court as an audit body; • to strengthen quality assurance and quality control activities with a view to a coherent interpretation and application of its audit strategies and methods; • to develop risk-oriented audit strategies to make the best use of resources in view of the different needs of the recipients.
The peer review report acknowledges that most of the recommendations have already been anticipated in the action plan prepared before the procedure.
The Court intends to include the other recommendations in its 2009-2012 audit strategy after an exchange with its staff and addressees and will endeavour to implement them during that period.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS INTERNATIONAL PEER REVIEW OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 38
CENTRAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2008, the Court decided to introduce a system of key performance indicators (CLI) for its audit and non-audit activities in order to measure performance in achieving the Court's strategic objectives and objectives set out in the Annual Work Programme.
ZLI will strengthen internal and external accountability and increase work efficiency and quality. ZLI will be gradually introduced in 2009 and 2010.
• To inform management of the success of the Court as an institution in implementing what it has undertaken; • To support the decision-making process by focusing the institution's attention on efficiency issues and promoting improvements; • To provide the addressee with information on relevant aspects related to the Court's performance.
They are intended to provide information on the performance of the Court as "company" and become an integral part of the Court's management system.
The volume and quality of audit work can also be improved by considering the impact of the Court's reports and opinions on financial management.
Four key performance indicators (1 to 4) are used to measure the impact of the Court's work.
They will be developed to be included in the Court's annual work programme for 2010.
The Court has measured the performance in 2008 on the basis of the ZLI 5 and 6.
ZLI 5 – Number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned In 2008, the Court adopted 79% of the planned number of reports.
The annual report and most specific annual reports were adopted as planned.
Of the 20 special reports planned, only twelve were adopted.
The remaining eight special reports were still in the drafting phase as at 31 December 2008.
ZLI 6 – Number of reports adopted on time In 2008, the Court adopted 73% of its reports on time.
The annual report and all specific annual reports were adopted on time, while further efforts are needed to improve compliance with the deadlines for adopting the special reports.
ZLI 7, which measures the number of key audit notifications prepared on time, will provide useful performance information and will be prepared in 2009.
A CLI (8) covers aspects relating to the Court's financial management.
Two ZLI (9 and 10) are designed to improve staff satisfaction and to optimise the use of continuing vocational training as an instrument for the ongoing updating of the knowledge about the latest examination methods and techniques.
The Court's CENTRAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Court's quality and impact assessment of the Court's audit activities by the main addressees of the Court's reports The quality and impact of the Court's audited body The Court's audited body's assessment of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by an external panel of experts Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audited body b) The audited body implements them within x years Number of reports accepted compared to the number of reports planned Number of reports accepted on time Percentage of audit reports issued on time External assessment of the Court's financial management: a) Audit opinion of the auditor b) Decision of the discharge authority Degree of satisfaction of the Court's staff Average number of training days per person 40 ZLI 1 ZLI 2 ZLI 3 ZLI 4 ZLI 5 ZLI 6 ZLI 7 ZLI 8 ZLI 9 ZLI 10
INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION COOPERATION WITH THE EU'S NATIONAL ACCOUNTS INSTITUTIONS Pursuant to the EC Treaty, the ERH has carried out its audit in ‘Connection with the Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities (ORCBs), while the Treaty of Amsterdam has subsequently added: ‘The Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies are working together with confidence while maintaining their independence.' This arrangement has been extended in the Treaty of Nice by the fact that the Court of Auditors was specifically invited in the 18th Declaration of the Final Act to establish a Committee for contacts with the national audit bodies, in which all the Presidents of the SAIs and the Court meet annually to discuss matters of common interest.
In December 2008, the Court hosted the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the EU-ORKB.
The main focus of the meeting was on the reform of the EU budget and the revised Lisbon Strategy for the period 2008-2011.
The Contact Committee shall seek to strengthen cooperation among its members in order to improve external audit and accountability in the EU.
The role of the Contact Committee has developed over the years in parallel with European integration.
In addition to facilitating the exchange of information between SAIs and the ERA, this body has made significant progress in effective cooperation between the various control authorities.
At its meeting in Helsinki in 2007, the Contact Committee recognised the need to address emerging or new issues in a timely manner and agreed to provide a permanent agenda item for dealing with such current issues.
Accordingly, the Contact Committee discussed the economic and financial crisis at its 2008 meeting and agreed to organise a workshop on the role of the EU ORCB in the context of the crisis.
A network to promote cooperation in audits of the Lisbon Strategy and EU crisis management measures was then established.
The Court attended meetings of the network of SAIs of candidate countries and candidate countries ‘in spe' (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Montenegro).
These meetings were held at the same time as liaison officers' meetings in May and October.
A delegation from the Court also attended a workshop on the audit/evaluation of public finance internal control systems organised by the Network in Ankara, Turkey, on 8 and 9 July.
Throughout 2008, the Court actively participated in the various working groups set up by the Contact Committee.
The Working Group on Common Audit Standards, whose objective is to develop common audit standards tailored to the EU environment and comparable audit standards based on internationally recognised audit standards, met four times in 2008 under the chairmanship of the Court.
With effect from December 2008, the Court took over the (rotating) chair of the Working Group on Value Added Tax, and the network of experts in the field of agriculture resumed its work under the chairmanship of a member of the Court.
OTHER INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court continued its active participation and participation in improving international auditing principles and procedures through its membership of European and international organisations for public financial control bodies, namely EUROSAI and INTOSAI.
A delegation from the Court attended the VII EUROSAI Congress, which took place in Krakow, Poland, from 2 to 5 June.
The main topics discussed included the introduction of quality management systems in the field of examination in a SAIs, the examination of social programmes in the field of training and the vocational integration of disabled people.
The Court's President presented a contribution to the role of the management in the implementation of a quality management system for auditing.
Within the framework of EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the Environmental Working Group and the IT Working Group and participates in the EUROSAI Training Committee.
It also participates in the working group set up at the VII EUROSAI Congress to develop a guide to best practices for achieving quality in SAIs.
The Court is also a member of the EUROSAI Task Force on Disaster Aid Assessment. 42
At the EUROSAI Congress, the European Court of Auditors, together with the Supreme Audit Authority of the Slovak Republic, was appointed as the auditor for the period 2009-2011.
Since the Court became a full member of INTOSAI in 2004, it has actively participated in the Subcommittee for Guidelines for Auditing Accounting (FAS), the Subcommittee for Auditing Compliance with Legal Standards (CAS) and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits (PAS).
The Court contributed to the subcommittee on the promotion of best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews.
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the Working Group on Accountability and Audit of Disaster Assistance (successor body of the INTOSAI Task Force Tsunami).
The Court hosted a first meeting of this working group from 30 June to 2 July 2008.
The draft work programme for 2008-2010 was discussed and adopted at the meeting.
The main objective is to develop guidelines for accountability and audit in this area, with all stakeholders being reached through the relevant standardisation body.
In addition to its coordinating role, the Court has assumed responsibility for a number of tasks, two of which are in cooperation with the Norwegian Court of Auditors.
The chair of this working group also requires the Court to be represented at the meetings of the INTOSAI Bureau. 43
Of the 857 staff (officials and temporary and contract staff, but without members, seconded national experts and trainees) who were in active service as of 31 December 2008, 501 were employed as examiners and examination assistants, 163 as translators and 173 as administrative assistants and 20 as presidents.
They have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the output of the Court.
For human resources, the Court has set out the assessment of the level of satisfaction of the Court's staff as a key performance indicator (ZLI 9).
A satisfaction survey was conducted to provide information on this issue and to support the decision-making process in this area.
MEN WOMEN 54 % 46 % 12.2001 12.2008 51 % 49 %
The following graph shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2008.
14 of the 59 directors and heads of unit (24%) are women, which represents a slight increase in the proportion of women since 2007.
Assistants — Secretaries (AST level) MEN Auditors — Administrators (AD level) MEN Directors and Head of Unit MEN WOMEN 45 32 % 68 % 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 WOMEN 33 % 67 % 64 % 36 % 63 % 37 % WOMEN 77 % 23 % 76 % 24 %
ALTERSPROFILE The following graph shows that the Court is a ‘young' organ (62% of the workforce are under 44 years of age).
Among the 98 Court staff aged 55 or over, 27 of the 59 directors and heads of units are present, which means that there will be extensive new posts in the senior management levels over the next five to ten years.
Age profile 46 33 2 65 148 148 123 101 62 3 172 20-24 25-29 30–34 35–39 40–44 45–49 50–54 55–59 60–64 >64 TERMINATION The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions, and staff consists of both officials and temporary staff.
In 2008, the Court hired 97 employees: 48 officials, 18 temporary staff and 31 contract staff.
The recruitment depends on whether reserve lists of EPSO competitions are available.
Due to the lack of suitable candidates, the Court was unable to recruit as many new staff in many units as planned, so that the total number of vacancies (69) was higher at the end of 2008 than at the end of 2007.
However, it should be noted that a significant number of recruitments were underway towards the end of the year and that the staff concerned are expected to start their service during the first quarter of 2009.
The Court is currently seeking to reduce the time limits for its recruitment procedures.
TRANSLATION Translation is an important administrative task that enables the Court to achieve its communication objectives and fulfil its legal obligation to publish in 22 languages.
The volume of translation increased by 17% in 2008, mainly due to the adoption of a higher number of special reports.
The vast majority of translations are done internally and translation orders are placed at the Translation Centre (CTOU) or external translation agencies in peak times when the normal capacity of translation departments is exceeded.
In addition, translators participate in audit trips and support the auditors before, during and after audit trips, including in the subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
The translators shall provide constant support in the ongoing updating of the contents of the intranet and the website in English and French.
They also support INTOSAI working groups and meet other specific needs related to the Court's activities.
The Court's Translation Directorate is actively involved in the work of the Interinstitutional Committee on Translation and Interpretation (CITI), is a member of international committees and participates in international conferences on the development of electronic translation and documentation tools.
TESTS In the course of the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to Member States and other recipient countries from EU funds to obtain adequate audit evidence.
The visits are usually carried out by central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and payment of EU funds, as well as by the final beneficiaries.
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors and the length of an audit trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of audit and the distance.
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member State visited, which provide useful logistical and practical support. 47
In 2008, costs of 3.29 million euros were incurred in connection with audit trips.
This substantial investment is necessary to ensure a sufficient audit coverage of all levels and locations of EU funds management.
The graphs below give an overview of the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in 2008 in the EU Member States and outside the Union.
50 40 30 20 10 0 5 4 3 2 1 0 Total: 283 AUDIT RATES TO MEMBER STATES IN 2008 48 48 35 34 21 20 17 13 11 10 9 9 8 55 33 33332222 1 AUDIT RATES IN NON-MEMBER COUNTRIES IN 2008 Total: 42 Turkey Switzerland Malawi South Africa Tanzania Rwanda Peru Norway Kenya Bangladesh Angola Zambia Tunisia Sudan Senegal Palestinian Territories Mauritania Kosovo Jordan Georgia, Armenia Egypt Congo Burkina Faso France Spain Germany Belgium United Kingdom Poland Italy Netherlands Portugal Sweden Greece Ireland Austria Hungary Estonia Slovenia Slovakia Romania Malta Latvia Finland Cyprus Lithuania Denmark Czech Republic Bulgaria Luxembourg
VOCATIONAL TRAINING The profession of the examiner requires continuous training.
In 2008, the Court's staff completed on average ten days of professional training.
The number of technical training measures increased considerably compared to 2007.
In 2008, the Court increased its support for the participation of its staff in ongoing programmes to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and qualifications in the areas of external audit, internal audit and IT audit.
Language courses accounted for 48% of the total number of training days in 2008 (compared to 52% in 2007).
Without taking into account the language courses, the examiners completed seven days of professional training in 2008.
Based on the long-term strategic objective of "Continuing development and growth", the 2008-2011 Training Framework and the continuing training pathways adopted in 2008, the Professional Training Unit has improved the content of the training activities and developed new training courses in line with the priorities decided by the Court.
Cooperation with the other institutions and interinstitutional bodies such as the European School of Administration has also been successfully continued.
Box 6 presents a portrait of the staff of a selected unit or department within the Court to give the reader a picture of the work carried out, the staff involved, their background and work experience. 49
50 BOX 6 
It covered the procedures for allocating funds for individual projects, monitoring and evaluation procedures, administrative costs and the impact of the establishment of an executive agency.
The team responsible for conducting the audit worked closely with the rapporteur, Mr David Bostock.
The head of the department responsible for monitoring the audit was Hendrik Fehr, who was responsible for the team leadership of Peggy Vercauteren.
The examiners involved were Oliver Müller, Peter Zsapka, Zoltán Giday and Carl-Christian Buhr, with Gerhard Ross, Thomas af Hällström and Peter Welch from the cabinet of Mr. David Bostock also playing an important role.
The audit included a survey to obtain information from a wide group of participants.
Various cost accounting techniques have been used to complete and supplement the information available to the Commission.
The audit found that the programme was managed in accordance with the Commission's usual approaches and guidelines.
However, the expenditure pattern was not very targeted and the monitoring and evaluation of the programme did not allow an assessment of the overall quality of the programme.
During the programme period, relatively high administrative costs (for the Commission, the Agency and the participants) were incurred, about the same amount as the amount paid to participants during the same period.
The establishment of the Executive Agency had improved the satisfaction of the participants with the programme.
From left to right: Hendrik Fehr, Director (25 years at the Court), David Bostock, Member of the Court (7 years at the Court), Zoltán Giday, Audit Board (3 years at the Court), Peggy Vercauteren, Audit Board (5 years at the Court), Oliver Müller, Audit Board (6 years at the Court), Peter Welch, Head of Cabinet (13 years at the Court), Gerhard Ross, Head of Unit (11 years at the Court), Thomas af Hällström, Audit Board (8 years at the Court).
FINANCIAL INFORMATION BUDGET The Court's 2009 budget accounts for around 0.16% of the EU's total budget and 2.4% of the EU institutions' administrative appropriations.
Compared with 2008, there was an increase of 41 %, mainly due to the Court's budget for construction work, as further staff increases will result in staff being accommodated in a second extension building (K3 building), which is scheduled to be completed in 2013.
Negotiations on the financing arrangements were opened with the budgetary authority in February 2008.
As a result, the construction project, whose total cost is estimated at EUR 79 million, is financed by four consecutive annual budgets.
In October 2008, the budgetary authority approved a tranche of EUR 55 million for the 2009 budget.
Staff resources account for around 52% of the total budget in 2009.
2007 2008 BUDGET Members of the institution Officials and temporary staff Other staff and external services Mission expenses Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution Title 1 Total buildings Computer and telecommunications Equipment and furniture: purchase, hire and maintenance Current operating expenditure Meetings and conferences Information and publications Title 2 Total Court of Auditors 11 270 82 583 4 014 3 000 2 056 102 923 8 126 5 518 1 396 435 872 1 810 18 157 110 519 2009 (in EUR 1 000) 11 718 92 086 4 4 497 3 290 2 684 114 275 62 891 6 269 981 439 868 1 921 73 369 187 644 12 061 88 712 4 248 3 212 2 286 12 110 5 879 1 147 121 080 132 769 425 876 1 813 22 250
In general, the aim is to assess the performance of individual services in the implementation of strategies, programmes and measures with the aim of continuous improvement.
In 2008, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused on auditing the accounts (audit of accounting records), auditing the ex-ante audit, recruitment procedures, aid and staff recruitment allowances, building maintenance, expenditure on utilities and services, implementation of the IT strategy and a review of the IT control framework.
Most of the audit recommendations issued by the internal auditor in 2008 were accepted by the audited bodies and included in action plans for corrective action.
The Internal Audit Committee met six times in 2008 and focused on follow-up to the Internal Auditor's recommendations.
Other topics included the Committee's own report on 2007 and the Court's report to the discharge authority on the role of internal auditor, drawn up for 2007.
The Internal Audit Committee held two meetings with the Court's independent auditor to discuss the state of play of the audit for the financial year 2007.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE HOFES In its opinion on the 2007 financial year (OJ C 318 of 12.12.2008), the Court's independent auditor drew the following conclusions: ‘As regards the annual accounts, we believe that the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2007 and of the financial position and cash flows for the year ending on that date in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down implementing provisions for the Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors.' As regards the use of resources and the control procedures: ‘(...) we (we) do not have encountered any circumstances from which we must conclude that, in all essential respects and taking into account the above assessment criteria, the appropriations allocated to the Court were not used for the intended purposes and (a) the control procedures established do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations were carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations.
52
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-202-5 QJ-AA-09-001-EN-C
ISSN 1684-0666 ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2009
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2009
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2010 ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518 © European Union, 2010 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
4 PRESIDENCY OF THE PRESIDENT 4 Welcome to the annual report of the European Court of Auditors on activities for 2009.
The aim of this report is to provide readers with an overview of the main results and progress achieved by the Court during this year and to inform them of the main developments in its audit environment and internal organisation.
2009 was an important year of renewal for the EU, marked by the election of a new European Parliament, the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon and the launch of the process of selecting a new European Commission.
The new Treaty confirms the role and mandate of the Court and its status as an EU institution, and introduces changes in the management and control of EU funds, strengthening the role of the European Parliament and stressing the responsibility of Member States for the implementation of the budget.
The Court expects these developments to provide good opportunities for improving EU financial management.
The section entitled ‘The Court's point of view' contains a summary of our opinion on the risks and challenges facing the new Commission.
The quality of EU expenditure is given a high priority.
During this year, we have made considerable progress in implementing our 2009-2012 audit strategy and on the way to achieving our goals – increasing the impact of our work and improving the use of our resources.
A decisive step was our decision to submit a new Rules of Procedure to the Council of the European Union for approval, aimed at streamlining our procedures for the adoption of reports and opinions.
In addition, the number of reports prepared by the Court increased from 42 in 2008 to 57 in 2009.
I am also pleased to report that our core product, the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, once again received a positive welcome from our main institutional addressees, who agreed with many of our recommendations.
During 2009, the Court continued its active cooperation with Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCs) to develop common approaches to the audit of EU funds and to consider how SAIs can help governments to cope with the financial and economic crisis.
The Court's achievements depend on the competence and motivation of its 880 employees.
Their satisfaction is a key factor in the success of the Court and is first quantified in this report.
I would like to thank the Court's staff for their tireless and dedicated work, which enables the Court to carry out its mission.
6 6 PROCUREMENT, GUIDELINE, VALUES AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES PROCUREMENT GUIDELINE VALUES The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, he contributes to improving EU financial management while acting as independent guardian of the financial interests of the EU citizens.
INDEPENDENT, INTEGRATION AND UNPARTY Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution whose members and employees deliver to its addressee with appropriate audit results, rejecting any form of influence by instructions or external pressure PROFESSIONALITY Maintaining a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of its work VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Producing relevant, timely high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the interests of its addressee circle and providing important and indicative statements recognising the value of individuals, supporting the development of special skills and rewards of performance Active participation in the development of public financial control at EU level and worldwide promoting team spirit through effective communication Increasing efficiency in all aspects of its work Participation in effective improvement of the management of the EU budget and contributing to strengthening accountability for the management of EU funds
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 7 PROFESSIONALITY OUTPUT ADRESSATE CREATION OF FURTHER DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH Consolidated audit methods, appropriate audit strategy, further development of audit practice in the public sector, development of common audit standards and comparable audit standards for EU funds, cooperation with the EU-ORKB, effective ‘Community control framework', selection of relevant audit topics, closeness to time, clarity and legibility of reports, quality of economic audits, increasing the impact of reports Deepening relations with audited bodies to improve understanding of the audit process and to achieve wider acceptance of audit results Use of experience with peer review procedures to strengthen and develop organisation, methods, procedures and results and to achieve maximum efficiency Strengthening contacts with the European Parliament and the Council as budgetary and discharge authority Pursuing effective and dynamic staffing quality training; modernising infrastructure Effective communication with EU citizens Implementation of IT strategies CIVILATION OF THE TEST STRATEGY 2009-2012 The best possible impact of the Maxim Staff Regulations on the Maxim Staff
8 ROLE AND WORK OF THE HOFE 8 ASSESSMENT OF THE HOFE'S WORK IS THE EU BUDGET The European Union's budget (2010) amounts to around EUR 123 billion, representing about 1% of the gross national income (GNI) of its 27 Member States.
However, for some Member States, EU funds play an important role in financing public activities, and the overall budget is significant compared to the GNI of several Member States.
The European Union's revenue consists mainly of contributions from Member States derived from their gross national income (GNI – 76%), from customs duties and agricultural duties (the so-called traditional own resources – 12%) and from a contribution based on VAT collected by Member States (VAT – 11%).
BOX 1 – WHAT IS THE EU GIVEN YOUR GIRL?
The EU budget is financed by financial contributions from Member States (mainly on the basis of national GNI), customs duties and agricultural duties, and VAT contributions.
The EU budget is largely used for purposes other than national budgets, partly due to the different areas of responsibility.
Citizenship, freedom, security and justice 1, 1% Conservation and management of natural resources (mainly agriculture) 47.3% The largest single EU expenditure area is agriculture and rural development, mainly in the form of payments to farmers, accounting for almost half of the budget expenditure.
Cohesion measures – regional and social development – also account for a large proportion of the total, which co-finances a wide range of projects, from road construction projects in Latvia to training for the unemployed in the Netherlands.
This sector accounts for about one third of the budget expenditure.
The European Union as a global player EU expenditure Source: European Union general budget for the financial year 2010. Administration 6.4% 6.3 % Sustainable growth (mainly cohesion) 38.8%
The budget is established annually by the Council, i.e. by representatives of the Member States, and by the directly elected European Parliament, on the basis of seven-year financial frameworks.
The European Commission is responsible for the budget and is responsible for its implementation.
The bulk of the budget, particularly in the area of expenditure on agricultural and cohesion policy, is implemented in cooperation with the Member States.
A particular feature of Community expenditure is the high percentage of payments based on the beneficiaries' own applications, whether farmers or project managers throughout the Union. 9
10 WHAT ROLE HAS THE HOF?
Democratic societies need proper, publicly available information to provide a basis for discussion and decision-making, both in terms of improving financial management and ensuring accountability.
In its role as external auditor of the EU, the European Court of Auditors ensures that the EU funds have been correctly accounted for, regardless of their place of use, in accordance with the relevant legislation and with due regard for the need to make optimum use of the funds.
The Court's audit work is used by the Commission, Parliament and the Council and by Member States to improve EU financial management.
In addition to the Court's work, many national control authorities are examining EU funds, provided they are managed and spent by public authorities in the Member States.
OVERVIEW OF INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CONTROLS OF EU BUDGET Commission (DGs, Internal Audit Service) Member States Implementing Bodies European Court of Auditors National Control Authorities National Level Internal Control External Control
(ACCOUNT OF ACCOUNTS) 2. Are financial operations in all essential respects in line with the relevant legal and other regulatory framework?
(COMPLIANCE VERIFICATION) 3. Is the budget sound, i.e. has the use of funds been kept to a minimum (sparability), has the results been achieved with the lowest possible resource use (economic efficiency) and has the objectives been achieved (effectiveness)?
The Court shall publish the results of its audit work in the following types of reports: annual reports – with the results of the audit of the accounts in the form of a statement of assurance on the implementation of the general budget2 and on activities under the European Development Funds3.
Specific annual reports – with the results of the audit of the accounts of the Union's agencies and decentralised bodies.
11 1 For more information on the Court's audit methods, see the manuals available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
2 According to the TFEU, the Court is obliged to make such a statement or an audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The annual Statement of Assurance is generally known under the French acronym DAS (Déclaration d'Assurance).
12 HOW DOES THE COURT PRESENT IN HIS TESTS?
The Court shall carry out its audit of the EU's annual accounts in accordance with international auditing principles, which shall apply in both the public and the private sectors.
However, the existing international auditing principles do not cover the Court's compliance audit.
The Court, together with the national control authorities, is actively involved in the further development of international auditing principles, which are being promoted by the standard-setting organisations (INTOSAI, IFAC)4.
In order to ensure that payments are consistent with the legal and other regulatory framework, the Court is based on the results of both its investigation of the monitoring and control systems, which are intended to prevent or detect errors of legality and regularity and to correct them, and a sample of individual transactions (payments) (see Box 2).
Other sources, such as statements by the management of the audited bodies in the form of annual activity reports by the Commission's Directors-General and the work of other auditors, are also used to support the Court's conclusions.
In the case of economic audits, the Court uses a variety of audit methods to assess the administrative and monitoring systems and to assess performance data on the basis of the criteria derived from the legislation and with a view to the principles of sound financial management.
In selecting the topics for its audit, the Court seeks to identify areas of audit where the greatest impact is expected in terms of the potential for improvement identified in terms of the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of EU expenditure.
3 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are based on international agreements concluded between the Community and its Member States and certain African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and on Council decisions on the association of overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
The Commission manages most of the expenditure related to the ACP countries, partly through the EuropeAid Cooperation Office (see External Relations, Development and Enlargement) and partly through delegations in the beneficiary countries.
4 INTOSAI (International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions) – International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC (International Federation of Accountants) – International Auditing Association.
BOX 2 – A SAMPLING OF PAYMENTS FROM THE EU BUDGET BY THE HOF 13 The Court does not have the resources necessary to examine in detail all the operations relating to the EU budget.
Therefore, it uses statistical sampling techniques to provide a representative result for the populations concerned.
The Court follows these processes up to the final beneficiary of the grant, for example a promoter in Italy.
The Court then checks – often on the spot – whether the application is in line with the actual circumstances.
The results can be extrapolated to the population concerned, i.e. a specific area of revenue or expenditure, by means of a representative sample, and together with information resulting from the assessment of management and control systems and other sources, serve as the basis for an overall audit opinion.
SELECTION OF A SAMPLE OF PROPOSALS Random selection of a representative sample Population of Cohesion payments Payment to a promoter in Italy
14 TASKS AND RESPONSIBILITIES5 14 PROMOTION STRUCTURE AND ORGANISATION The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body of 27 members, each with one member per Member State, appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament for a term of six years.
Members shall elect a President from among their number for three years, with the possibility of re-election.
Five audit groups to which individual members of the Court are assigned prepare the reports and opinions for adoption by the Court.
The organizational chart shows that there are four thematic audit groups covering different budgetary areas, as well as another audit group dealing with "horizontal" issues.
In addition, a Management Committee composed of members of the Court is responsible for preparing the Court's administrative decisions.
At the end of 2009, the Court sent the Council a proposal for an amendment to its Rules of Procedure to allow certain categories of Court opinions and reports to be adopted instead of the entire College of Chambers.
These amendments will streamline and make the Court's decision-making more efficient, including by reducing the time required for adoption of decisions.
Each Chamber has two areas of competence: the first is the adoption of special reports, special annual reports and opinions, the second is the preparation of draft observations for the annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds, and draft opinions for adoption by the College.
As with the Court, decisions are taken by a majority of the members of the Board.
Members may attend meetings of all chambers, but may vote only in the chamber to which they have been assigned by the Court.
Of course, the whole College will continue to meet to discuss and adopt the documents for which the Court alone is responsible, such as the annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds.
The role of the Management Committee will be strengthened.
The Committee shall be composed of the President of the Court of the Presidency and the Doyens of the Chambers.
Administrative matters requiring the consideration of a Court decision, as well as decisions on procedural, principle or strategic issues, are prepared by the Committee before being submitted to the Court for adoption.
The Member shall then present the report to the Audit Group and the Court and, after the adoption of the report, shall also take over its presentation to the European Parliament, the Council and other interested third parties.
5 For further details, please consult the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
THE HOFE'S PERSONNEL The budget for the financial year 2009 provides for 880 posts for the European Court of Auditors (as at 31 December 2009).
The Court's staff working in the audit area shall be responsible for the planning and carrying out of audits and the preparation of the resulting draft reports.
The auditors work in teams of different sizes: for some specific audits, a team includes four or five auditors, while some of the Court's broader audits (e.g. accounting/compliance audits in the field of agricultural and cohesion expenditure with a view to drawing up the annual statement of assurance) involve 20 or more auditors.
As a rule, auditors must obtain audit evidence through a number of procedures: file audits in Luxembourg, visits to the European Commission and "on-the-spot" audit visits in the Member States where the revenue received from the EU budget is generated and the actions financed from the EU budget are carried out.
The Court's reports and opinions must be accessible to readers throughout the Union and the Court must also maintain contacts with authorities and other bodies throughout the Union in the course of its audit work.
This would not be possible without the Court's translators translating his (in almost all cases in English or French) reports and opinions into 22 of the official languages of the Union.
They shall also translate correspondence between the Court and other bodies as necessary and assist the auditors in carrying out verification visits in the Member States in some cases.
The Court's administrative staff are responsible for a wide range of support tasks that arise from a multinational body operating in the EU context.
This concerns the financial, accounting, budget, buildings, information technologies, transport, security, etc. The Secretary-General is the highest-ranking staff of the Court and is responsible for the management of staff and the administration of the Court. 15
16 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2009 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (PT) Morten Louis LEVYSOHN (DK) Jacek UCCKIEWICZ (PL) Kersti KALJULAID (ET) Lars HEIKENSTEN (SE) Harald NOACK (DE) Hubert WEBER (AT) Ioannis SARMAS (EL) Josef BONNICI (MT) Kikis KAZAMIAS (CY) Karel PINXTEN (BE) Henri Grethen (LU) Maarten B. ENGWIRDA (NL) Július MOLNÁR (SK) Irena PETRUŠKEVIČIEN (LT) Massimo VARI (IT) Ovidiu ISPIR (RO) Máire GEOGHEN-QUIN (IE) Vojko Anton ANTONČIČ (SI) Igors LUDBORŽS (LV) Juan RAMALLO MASSANET (ES) Nadejzva (BLO) (JA) JOBLO (JBLO) (JBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJBJB
An updated version is available on the Court's website at www.eca.europa.eu.
18 18 OVERVIEW OF AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS6 The number of special reports was higher in 2009 than in previous years, while the number of opinions decreased.
The annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Funds were adopted as planned.
RESULTS (ANNUAL NUMBER) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Special reports 6 11 9 12 18 Annual reports (including EDFs) 1 1 1 1 1 Special annual reports 20 23 29 29 37 Opinions 11 8 9 5 1 Annual reports on the 2008 financial year Every year, the Court reviews the annual accounts, revenue and expenditure of the EU.
The results of this review will be presented to the EU, Parliament and Council political bodies in the Court's annual reports.
6 This section is intended to introduce the Court's reports and opinions and to provide a more general summary of their content.
For more information, see the full text of the documents adopted by the Court, which is published on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET: SIX KERNAUSSAGEN • The European Union's annual accounts give a true picture of the financial situation and results. • As regards the legality and regularity of transactions, the overall results for 2008 reflect the improvements in budgetary management achieved in recent years. • The overall progress achieved in 2008 is mainly due to the better results in the main theme, "Agriculture and natural resources".
In the field of rural development, the estimated error rate is lower than in previous years, but still essential.
For the first time, the Court does not give a negative opinion on the subject of 'Agriculture and natural resources' as a whole. • The second largest subject, 'Cohesion', which accounts for almost one third of the budget, remains problematic as the most flawed budgetary area.
The Court's estimate that at least 11% of the total amount of the reimbursements should not have been paid. • The recommendations made by the Court in the past to improve monitoring and control systems remain valid.
They must be considered as part of an ongoing process in which the relevant measures can only be considered effective after some time. • In addition, particular attention should be paid to those areas of expenditure where the Court continues to complain of a high error rate.
In many cases, errors are a result of excessively complex regulations and regulations.
Therefore simplification remains a priority objective. 19
20 Unrestricted audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts The Court concluded that the 2008 annual accounts of the European Communities give a true and fair view of the financial situation of the European Communities and the results of its operations and cash flows.
Unrestricted audit opinions In 2008, the Court issued full audit opinions on ‘Revenues', commitments in all themes, payments in the ‘Education and Citizenship' and ‘Administrative and other expenditure' themes.
Limited audit opinions Payments in the theme "Agriculture and natural resources" except rural development were legal and proper in all essential respects.
Payments in the theme 'Economy and finance', except expenditure on the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development (FP6), which falls within this theme, were legal and correct in all essential respects.
Negative audit opinions The Court gave negative audit opinions on the subjects of cohesion, research, energy and transport, and external aid, development and enlargement.
Payments in these themes were largely, albeit at different rates, affected by errors.
The need for improvement in monitoring and control systems The monitoring and control systems in the themes "Research, Energy and Transport", "External assistance, development and enlargement", as well as "Education and citizenship" were effective in preventing or detecting and correcting the reimbursement of excessive or non-refundable costs.
In the case of the theme "Agriculture and natural resources", the Court also concluded that the monitoring and control systems were sufficiently effective.
However, it pointed out that the Integrated Management and Control System (IPCS) remains an effective control system in general.
However, improvements are needed in some areas, particularly rural development, where shortcomings exist.
In the case of the theme "Economy and finance", the monitoring and control systems were found to be effective in two of the three areas examined.
In the third area, "Companies", the systems were only considered to be partially effective, mainly due to shortcomings in FP6.
In the case of the theme ‘Cohesion', the Court noted that the Member States' systems dedicated to correcting errors detected in national controls were at least partially effective in most cases.
The Commission, Member States and other beneficiary countries must continue to make efforts to implement the necessary improvements in the above-mentioned themes in order to adequately manage the risk of irregular expenditure.
BOX 3 – INTERPRETATION OF AUDIT CASES 21 An auditor may issue the following types of audit opinions: • full audit opinion if it is proven that the accounting is reliable or the underlying transactions, i.e. payments, are lawful and correct in all essential respects; • negative audit opinion if the error rate in the underlying transactions is material and comprehensive or the accounting is not reliable; • refusal of audit opinion if the auditor cannot obtain sufficient and adequate audit evidence to support his audit opinion and the possible effects are both material and comprehensive; limited audit opinion if no full audit opinion can be delivered, but the effects of disagreements or limitations of the scope of the audit are not so substantial or comprehensive that they require a negative audit opinion or refusal of the audit opinion.
22 BOX 4 – SUMMARY OF THE LEGALITY AND ORDER OF THE PROPOSALS SUBMITTED BY FIELD OF EXPENDITURE The table below summarises the overall assessment of the monitoring and control systems as set out in the respective chapters of the 2008 Annual Report and gives a rough overview of the results of the Court's audits of representative samples of operations.
The table provides the key statements, but not all relevant details (in particular on the deficiencies in monitoring and control systems and types of errors) which are given in the main part of the report.
SYSTEM ASSESSMENT SPANNE OF THE FISHER QUOTE Revenues Agriculture and natural resources: 55 billion euros Cohesion: 36.6 billion euros Research, energy and transport: 7.5 billion euros External aid, development and enlargement: 6.2 billion euros Education and citizenship: 1.7 billion euros Economy and finance: 0.6 billion euros Administrative and other expenditure: 8.5 billion euros Monitoring and control systems assessment Not effective Effectively Effectively Exclusion in which the estimated FQ > 5 % 2 % ≤ FQ ≤ 5 % FQ < 2 % (below the error rate (FQ) is materiality threshold)
THE 2008 AUDIT JUDGMENT ON THE EDF The Court concluded that the 2008 EDF accounts provide a true and fair view of the EDF financial situation in all essential respects.
As regards the legality and regularity of operations, the Court gave a full opinion on EDF revenue and commitments.
The Court also concluded that EDF payments were significantly affected by errors.
The Court assessed the monitoring and control systems for the EDFs as conditionally effective.
ANNUAL REPORTS In addition, a further 37 special annual reports on the European Union agencies and other decentralised bodies for the financial year 2008 were adopted in 2009.
The Union agencies shall perform a wide range of tasks at different locations within the Union.
Each agency has a specific mission and manages its own budget.
The audits of the Union agencies and other decentralised bodies shall be the subject of specific annual reports, which shall be published separately.
With the exception of the European Police College, the Court gave full audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for all agencies. 23
24 SPECIAL REPORTS7 The selection of topics for economic and compliance audits and their design is based on criteria such as risk of the economic viability of certain revenues and expenditures or their compliance with the legislation, expenditure volume, date of the last audit, upcoming developments in the regulatory or operational framework, and political and public interest.
Since cost-effectiveness and compliance audits are complex and require a lot of detail work, their full implementation from the preliminary study to final reporting usually takes more than a year.
The Court adopted 18 special reports in 2009.
The special reports are available directly on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu) and a reference to their publication appears in the Official Journal.
As in previous years, the reports covered investigations into financial management issues in many different areas, ranging, for example, from EU food aid to the most deprived (No 6/2009) to cash management at the Commission (No 5/2009).
In addition to the 18 special reports, the Court analysed the use of EU funds in 2009 with a view to turning the Chernobyl site into an environmentally safe state.
Recommendations on how to improve the management of EU funds made available through the EBRD were sent to the President of the Commission in a (unpublished) letter from the President of the Court.
The special reports adopted by the Court in 2009 are listed below by thematic area.
A brief report on each topic will be presented to illustrate the nature of the issues addressed and the conclusions drawn.
7 special reports are available on the Court's website or can be obtained by electronic order form from the EU Bookshop.
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH • No 3/2009 "Effect of expenditure under structural measures for waste water treatment during the 1994-1999 and 2000-2006 programming periods" • No 7/2009 "Management of the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme" • No 8/2009 "Excellence networks and integrated projects in Community research policy: have the objectives been achieved?" • No 13/2009 "Has the transfer of implementation tasks to executive agencies proved to be an appropriate instrument?" • No 17/2009 "Training measures for women co-financed by the European Social Fund" 25 Managing the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme The Court examined the development and validation phase of the Galileo programme, which was launched with the aim of creating a European Global Satellite Navigation System (GNSS), and explained the causes of the misdevelopments identified.
It concluded that the development and validation phase was inadequately managed.
If the realignment of the EGNOS (Geostationary Navigation Supplement Service for Europe) and Galileo programmes, which was carried out in mid-2007, is to be successful, the Commission must significantly improve its programme management.
The report contains a number of recommendations designed to facilitate this task for the Commission.
Finally, if the EU decides to engage in other major infrastructure programmes, the Commission must ensure that it has the appropriate administrative tools at its disposal.
SURVEILLANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES • No 6/2009 ‘European Union food aid for the most deprived: evaluation of objectives, resources and methods used' • No 10/2009 ‘Information and promotion measures for agricultural products' • No 11/2009 ‘Sustainability of LIFE-Nature projects and their management by the Commission' • No 14/2009 ‘Have the market management instruments for the milk and milk products market achieved their main objectives?'
26 Have the market management instruments for the milk and milk products market achieved their main objectives?
The Court took stock of the functioning of the market in milk and milk products since the introduction of milk quotas in 1984 and examined the Commission's approach to managing the gradual deregulation of the milk sector, which was initiated in 2003.
The situation at the end of 2008 is the basis for the Court's recommendations to the Commission: preventing new overproduction, monitoring the price formation process in the food chain, deepening reflection on the future of producers in disadvantaged areas and on the impact of the geographical concentration of milk production on the environment, continuing the focus of milk production on the need to meet the European internal market and on milk products with high added value, which are exportable without budget support to the world market.
EU CITIZENSHIP, FREEDOM, SECURITY AND LAW • No 2/2009 ‘The European Union Public Health Programme (2003-2007): an effective way to improve health?' The European Union Public Health Programme (2003-2007): an effective way to improve health?
The Court analysed the European Union Public Health Programme (PHP) for the period 2003-2007.
The Court's audit was intended to determine whether the framework conditions for projects financed by the EU budget were defined in such a way as to effectively complement Member States' policies to protect and improve public health.
The report shall contain detailed conclusions and recommendations on the design, implementation and management of the programme.
In view of its findings, the Court questions the benefits of certain programme components of European public health programmes such as PHP.
The Commission and the Member States are invited to reconsider the EU's public health funding approach.
THE EU AS GLOBALER PARTNER • No 1/2009 "Banking activities in the Mediterranean region under the MEDA programme and previous protocols" • No 4/2009 "Management of the Commission's involvement of non-state actors in Community development cooperation" • No 12/2009 "The effectiveness of Commission projects in the field of justice and home affairs for the Western Balkans" • No 15/2009 "The EU's assistance provided through United Nations organisations: decision-making and control" • No 16/2009 "The European Commission's management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey" • No 18/2009 "The effectiveness of EDF assistance for regional economic integration in East Africa and West Africa" 27 The European Commission's management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey The Court examined the management of pre-accession assistance to Turkey by the European Commission.
In particular, the first period of implementation of pre-accession assistance (2002-2006) was characterised by many weaknesses that had already occurred in previous pre-accession programmes.
The objectives set by the Commission in relation to the grants were not sufficiently concrete to enable an assessment of the project's impact and the Commission did not have the information necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of pre-accession assistance.
Nevertheless, the projects examined have produced the planned outputs and the project results are likely to be sustainable.
The Commission has already made some significant improvements, but the Court makes recommendations for further corrective action.
Areas where improvements are most necessary include defining strategic objectives for financial assistance, setting more realistic deadlines for achieving objectives, and monitoring actual project performance and results, using clear objectives and appropriate indicators.
28 MANAGEMENT • No 5/2009 ‘Commission's management of funds' • No 9/2009 ‘Economic efficiency and effectiveness of the selection activities of the European Personnel Selection Office' Economic efficiency and effectiveness of the selection activities of the European Personnel Selection Office The Court focused on how the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) managed the sharp increase in the number of competitions resulting from the enlargement of the European Union and whether it provided timely aptitude lists containing the required number of successful candidates and were geographically balanced.
It concluded that EPSO had successfully managed the increase in the number of competitions resulting from the enlargement of the European Union.
However, the following weaknesses were to be noted: the staff needs of the institutions were not notified to the EPSO in time, the selection process took too long, the selection procedures showed on average only two thirds of the number of successful candidates (which were included in the aptitude list) and the management information was not consistently reliable or complete.
OPINIONS The Court's further contribution to improving EU financial management is to deliver opinions on proposals or budgetary management issues.
These opinions are required as part of the procedure for adopting financial rules8 or may be submitted at the request of one of the other institutions of the Union9.
In 2009, the Court adopted an opinion on the proposal to amend the Regulation of the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market on the Office's financial rules (the Financial Regulation).
Article 322 TFEU.
9 Article 287(4) TFEU.
29 CONTINUING AND EFFECTIVENESS The Court's audits serve as a direct source of information for decision-makers in the institutions concerned, in the European context, primarily the Commission, Parliament, the Council and the Member States.
On the basis of this information, they may take action with or without reference to the Court's conclusions on the audit.
Although the Court's audit activities have their main impact on the reports and opinions published, they have already had some effect throughout the course of the audits.
The replies of the audited body, namely the Commission, will be 29 together. Examples of the impact of the Court's work are measures taken by the Commission in response to the 2007 discharge resolution (and their impact mainly in 2009): In the area of agricultural expenditure The management and control system for expenditure under the newly created European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) has been aligned with the EAGF guarantee system, so that the largely recognised benefits of this system will also apply to EAFRD expenditure (see paragraph 5.54 of the Annual Report for the financial year 2004 and paragraph 5.57 of the 2007 annual report).
In the area of cohesion The Commission is continuing to work on a revision of the rules applicable for 2007-2013 in order to simplify the reporting system, and has committed itself to prepare a report on the actions implemented in 2009 and the initial impact of all the measures in its Action Plan to strengthen the Commission's supervisory role in the management of structural measures at the beginning of 2010 (see points 1.53 and 6.36(a) of the 2007 Annual Report).
In the field of external policies In order to strengthen controls at the level of implementing organisations, the Commission is planning to develop a specific instrument to better assist these organisations in managing EU funds and complying with EU rules (see point 8.33(a) of the 2007 Annual Report).
In the field of internal policies, including research The Commission has developed a multiannual control strategy for the Sixth Framework Programme based on detection and correction of errors that could not be detected by file checks prior to payment.
In order to simplify the procedures of the Seventh Framework Programme, the Commission introduced a Participant Guarantee Fund which has significantly reduced the number of ex ante financial controls and the protective measures to be taken (see points 7.43(b), 10.34 and 2.42(a) of the 2007 annual report).
Source: Commission report to the European Parliament on the follow-up to the 2007 discharge decisions.
The special reports are also taken into account in the discharge procedure.
Due to the fact that they are published during the year, the presentation of the special reports and the debate on them have usually taken place at an earlier stage in the meetings of Parliament and the Council.
The impact of the audit reports can be enhanced by their thematicisation in the relevant media, which will raise awareness and stimulate public debate.
As a rule, the media coverage of the Court's annual report is quite comprehensive.
This was also the case in 2009, with media focus primarily on improvements in agricultural spending.
Several special reports were also followed with interest by the press.
For example, the special report on the milk market (No 14/2009) assessing the extent to which the management tools for the milk and milk products market have achieved their main objectives was the subject of intensive discussions in the Council and Parliament, and it sparked a broad response in the media and in the professions concerned at a time when the sector is facing a variety of problems.
The Court is working to further analyse the impact of its activities.
In 2009, it started developing a systematic follow-up procedure for its special reports to identify and document progress made by the audited bodies in addressing the identified weaknesses and implementing the recommendations.
This procedure will provide the Court, as well as Parliament and other interested parties, with additional feedback on the impact of its activities.
31 POSITION OF THE COURT OPINION No 1/2010 – IMPROVING THE EUROPEAN UNION'S FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT: RISKS AND CHALLENGES In February 2010, the Court first issued an opinion on measures to reduce the level of irregular payments at EU budget level and improve the quality of expenditure (sparability, efficiency and effectiveness).
The Court concluded that, in order to further develop recent progress in reducing the level of irregular payments, legislation in high risk areas should be simplified and more cost-effective control systems established.
Such reforms should be in the context of the ongoing broader review of EU spending regimes.
The Court considers that improving the quality of expenditure is of high importance, which can be achieved by applying the concept of European added value in defining expenditure priorities and addressing the specific problems identified by the Court in the selection, design and implementation of expenditure programmes and grant schemes.
The scope of the proposed budget is limited, although the level of irregular payments from the EU budget as a whole has fallen, in the areas of cohesion and external aid, development and enlargement, as well as the framework programme for research and technological development and rural development.
Most irregularities are based on the notification of ineligible expenditure by beneficiaries, the notification of excessive eligible expenditure and the non-compliance with payment conditions, for example in the area of public procurement rules.
They are primarily due to the complexity of the rules and payment conditions and to shortcomings in the systems for controlling risks at the level of the final beneficiaries.
SIMPLIFICATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF LEGAL FRAMEWORK AND IMPROVEMENT OF MONITORING AND CONTROL The Commission should address the specific system deficiencies identified by the Court in the high-risk areas and improve its oversight.
However, with more controls and correspondingly decreasing error rates, the point at which the cost of controls is no longer proportionate to the benefits achieved is eventually reached.
Therefore, simplification should remain a priority objective.
Clearly interpreted and easily applied rules and legislation can reduce not only the risk of errors but also the control costs. 31
32 IMPROVING THE CONCEPT OF EXPENDITURE PROGRAMMES In addition to simplification, the Commission should ensure that clear objectives are set when revising existing and designing new measures.
Often more sense of reality, greater transparency and accountability are needed.
To this end, the Commission could further strengthen existing procedures for developing future strategies, in particular ex ante evaluation and impact assessment.
The Court proposes that the concept of European added value be clarified in an appropriate political statement or in EU legislation to provide guidance to EU policy-makers in defining expenditure priorities.
The Court considers that the Commission should complete the budget review as soon as possible and take account of the results of the preparation of the financial framework starting in 2014.
Improving the quality of expenditure should be a priority for the institutions of the European Union, and thus a main objective of the new Commission.
33 HOUSEHOLD PLANNING FOR 201010 The Court shall present its future audit work annually in a work programme submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and available to the public on the Court's website.
The work programme shall provide interested parties with information on new and ongoing audits and on planned reports.
The Court developed an audit strategy for the period 2009-2012, based on two priority objectives: maximising the overall impact of the audits and improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
These objectives will be decisive in the Court's 2010 work programme and its efforts to improve continuously.
The Court aims to maximise the overall impact of its audits over the period concerned by: • selecting and designing audits focusing on issues from risk areas and of the greatest interest to the Court's audience; • continuing to provide sound audit conclusions and useful suggestions for improvement and monitoring whether these proposals are being implemented; • carrying out a wider range of audits and presenting new types of audit products that complement the current annual and special reports; • producing a larger number of special reports and improving their timeliness and ease of use; • developing its relations with its main addressees, including the relevant parliamentary committees, as well as with the media and the general public.
• improving management; • effective and dynamic personnel policy; • rationalising audit tasks; • improving IT tools; • developing expertise; • developing relations with audited bodies.
33 10 A more complete and detailed overview of the Court's future work can be found in the Court's 2010 work programme, which is available on its website (www.eca.europa.eu).
34 The Court has selected certain audit priorities for the 2010 work programme, including: • multi-annual character of a large part of Community expenditure, including flat-rate corrections and recoveries; • innovation and the internal market; • human capital; • sustainable energy; • Commission strategy to simplify the legal framework for businesses and citizens.
FOURTH PRINCIPLE FOR A NEW BUILDING On 1 July 2009 the foundation stone for a new building, the second extension of the European Court of Auditors, was laid in Luxembourg.
Vítor Caldeira, President of the European Court of Auditors, Claude Wiseler, Luxembourg Minister of Buildings, Patrick Gillen, President of the Fonds d'urbanisation et d'aménagement du Kirchberg, and Eduardo Ruiz García, General Secretary of the Court, gave the symbolic first groundbreaking signal for the start of the construction work.
This extension of the European Court of Auditors' two-building complex will allow staff recruited as part of successive Union enlargements.
The Court will endeavour to broaden its range of audit-related reporting types in 2009-2012.
To this end, it will coordinate with its main external addressees to ensure that it gains a clear understanding of their different needs and how it can best meet its expectations in the context of the fulfilment of its mandate under the Treaty.
A significant proportion of the resources available to the Court will be used to audit the accounts in order to draw up a statement of assurance (the so-called "DAS").
This requires the examination and audit of the accounts and the operations of the EU general budget for each financial year.
Separate Statements of Assurance shall be drawn up on the European Development Funds and on each of the 40 European agencies and bodies.
The audit work will cover the period from June of year n to June of year n+1, so that the annual reports can be published in accordance with the Financial Regulation in November of year n+1.
The Statement of Assurance for the financial year 2009 will therefore be drawn up and published in 2010, and the Statement of Assurance for the financial year 2010 will start at the same time11.
The Court's work aims at presenting clear conclusions on the state of accounting and budgetary management in the various areas of the general budget and at providing appropriate and cost-effective recommendations where improvements are possible.
The Court's annual report on the general budget for 2009 will continue to reflect the structure established in 2007 and taking into account the re-integration of the budget12.
The findings are presented in chapters relating to coherent groups of policy areas (thematics), which largely, but not entirely, correspond to the headings of the new financial framework.
Furthermore, the Court will be particularly concerned to present its results and conclusions more clearly and coherently in order to make them more comprehensible and readable and to facilitate comparison within and between the themes and between them and between the financial years.
35 11 For further information on the DAS approach, please consult the Court's website at www.eca.europa.eu.
12 The Court has set up a DAS think tank to rethink various aspects of the DAS approach, and in this context it is also considered to redefine the areas of specific assessments.
36 36 MEASUREMENT AND IMPROVEMENT OF CENTRAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In 2008, the Court decided to establish a system of key performance indicators (CLI) for its audit and non-audit activities in order to measure performance in achieving the Court's strategic objectives and objectives set out in the annual work programmes.
ZLI is used to strengthen internal and external accountability and to increase work efficiency and quality. WOZU CENTRAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS? • To inform management of the success of the Court as an institution in implementing what it has undertaken; • To support the decision-making process by focusing the institution's attention on efficiency issues and promoting improvements; • To provide information to the audience on relevant aspects related to the Court's performance.
The CLIs are primarily concerned with the achievement of the Court's strategic objectives, as they cover quality of audit, output, impact and economic management of the Court's resources.
They provide information on the performance of the Court as "company" and are an integral part of the Court's management system.
THE CENTRAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF THE COURT 37 ZLI 1 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the main addressees of the Court's reports ZLI 2 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the audited body ZLI 3 Assessment of the content and presentation of the Court's reports by a panel of external experts ZLI 4 Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audited body b) Implementation by the audited body within a certain number of years ZLI 5 Number of reports accepted compared to the number of planned reports ZLI 6 Number of reports accepted on time ZLI 7 Percentage of audit reports issued on time ZLI 8 External assessment of the Court's financial management: a) Audit opinion of the independent auditor b) Decision of the discharge authority ZLI 9 Degree of satisfaction of the Court's staff ZLI 10 Average number of training days per person Quantity and quality of audit work can also be improved if the Court's reports and opinions on financial management are considered.
Four key performance indicators (1 to 4) are used to measure the impact of the Court's work.
They were included in the Court's 2010 annual work programme.
38 Number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned In 2009, the Court adopted 91% of the planned number of reports.
The annual report and all specific annual reports were adopted as planned.
Of the 24 special reports planned, only 18 were adopted.
The remaining six special reports were still in the final drafting phase as at 31 December 2009.
Number of reports adopted on time In 2009, the Court adopted 67% of its reports within the timeframe set.
The annual report and all specific annual reports were adopted on time.
Due to delays in the special reports, the Court failed to set the target for the CLI 6. Further efforts are needed to improve compliance with the deadlines for the adoption of the special reports.
Measurement of the number of key audit notices prepared on time The Court shall forward its preliminary audit results to the audited body in an audit report.
It aims to increase the proportion of audit notifications submitted on time by 10 % per year, with the long-term objective of producing 80 % of audit notifications within the specified timeframe (two months after the final audit visit).
In 2009, the number of audit notifications issued on time increased by 16% compared to 2008.
External assessment of the Court's financial management: a) independent auditor's audit opinion, b) decision of the discharge authority The Court's independent auditor gave an unqualified audit opinion on the annual accounts and resources used, and the European Parliament gave discharge on the basis of a positive recommendation from the Council.
Degree of satisfaction of the Court's staff In an internal employee satisfaction survey conducted in 2009, 86% of the Court's staff were generally satisfied with their work (target: 80 %), while the overall level of employee satisfaction was 2.8 on a scale of 4 (target: 2.5).
Average number of days of training for examiners (excluding language courses) In line with guidelines published by IFAC (International Federation of Accountants), the Court strives to provide the examiners with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training.
In 2009, the average was four days.
39 INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION The Court has actively and fully continued its international cooperation within the framework of the following fora: • the Contact Committee, composed of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States and the Court, • the Network of Supreme Audit Institutions of the Countries applying for EU membership, • the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI) and • the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI).
The Court contributed to the annual meetings of these organisations and to the improvement of international audit principles and procedures and was also actively involved in the committees and working groups set up by these organisations.
In particular, he has been chairing the Working Groups on Common Audit Standards and Value Added Tax established by the Contact Committee; • participating in the Working Groups on "Reports of National SAIs and Structural Funds"; • participation in the EUROSAI environmental working group and IT working group, the EUROSAI group, which prepares a guide to best practices for quality achievement, the EUROSAI Training Committee and the EUROSAI Task Force on the Audit of Disaster Aid Funds; • chairing the INTOSAI working group on accountability and the audit of disaster relief; • participation in the INTOSAI Subcommittee on Guidelines for Auditing Accounting, the Audit of Compliance with Legal Standards and Economic Assessments, and the Task Force on the Global Financial Crisis. 39
40 40 PERSONAL AND SUPPORT SERVICES The Court's most important capital is its employees.
At 31 December 2009, the staff of the Court amounted to 880 staff (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of the staff, 525 (including 115 in the members' cabinets) were engaged in audit-related tasks; 163 were employed as translators, 171 as administrative support staff and 21 as presidents.
The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
RECOGNITION OF THE HOF'S PLANNING CENTRES TO 31 DECEMBER (occupied and vacant posts) Translation Administrative support The Court has committed itself to achieving its strategic goal of improving efficiency through the best possible use of resources.
In 2009, he therefore continued to explore and exploit the potential for efficiency gains in all of his activities by simplifying procedures and streamlining services.
In particular, the resources of the support services made available through efficiency gains have been deducted from these services as far as possible and made available for audit-related tasks.
This process is not yet complete and its impact will be even more evident in 2010.
For human resources, the Court has set out the assessment of the level of satisfaction of the Court's staff as a key performance indicator (ZLI 9) (see page 37).
A satisfaction survey was conducted to provide information on this issue and to support the decision-making process in this area.
The Court is implementing measures to ensure that opportunities are fully exploited to achieve better results in the coming years.
2008 173 2009 Audit related tasks 501 525 163 163 171 20 21 Presidential services Total 857 880
SHARE OF MEN AND WOMEN The proportion of men and women was almost the same.
12.2001 12.2009 The graphs below show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2009.
Like the other European institutions, the Court pursues a policy of equal opportunities in terms of human resources management and recruitment and recognises the need to promote equal treatment between men and women in recruitment to higher management levels more actively.
17 of the 64 directors and department/referee heads (26.5%) are women, which represents a slight increase in the proportion of women since 2008 (24%).
Most of them are, however, in the Directorate for Translation and the Administrative Services.
The increase in the number of women in functional group AD reflects the results of the recent recruitment wave.
43% of employees in grades AD5 to AD8 are female.
Directors and Head of Unit 2008 2009 41 54 % 46% 51% 49% 76% 24% 73.5% 26.5%
42 auditors – Administrators (AD) 2008 2009 Assistants – Secretaries (AST) 2008 2009 The following graph shows the age profile of the 862 staff members of the Court who were in active employment as of 31 December 2009: "The Court is a young" institution (61% of the staff are not older than 44 years).
Among the 99 Court staff aged 55 or over, 24 of the 64 directors and department/office heads are present, which means that there will be extensive new posts in the senior management levels over the next five to ten years.
170 150 131 103 63 34 267 % 33 % 63% 37% 73% 33% 67% ALTERSPROFILE 161 47 1 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65-
TERMINATION The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff consists of both officials and temporary staff.
General selection procedures for Court posts are organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The Court also provides internships for a limited number of university graduates for periods of three to five months.
In 2009, the Court hired 112 employees: 69 officials, 14 temporary staff and 29 contract staff.
The recruitment depends on whether reserve lists of EPSO competitions are available and sufficient.
In 2009, the Court succeeded in recruiting an adequate number of new staff.
73 vacancies not filled on 31 December 2009 were reduced by 33% to 49 by 26 January 2010. The number of vacancies will continue to fall sharply in the coming months, as the latest recruitment wave will see further audit staff taking up their duties.
At 31 December 2008, 68 posts were not filled.
The reserve list for recruitments based on the EPSO AD/126/08 selection procedure was published in August and the first successful candidates were already in the service of the Court at the beginning of November, i.e. only three months later.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING The profession of the examiner requires continuous training.
In addition, the audit staff need good knowledge of foreign languages due to the specific circumstances of the Court's audit environment.
In 2009, the Court's employees completed on average nine days of professional training.
Language courses accounted for 64% of the total number of training days in 2009 (compared to 48% in 2008).
Without taking into account the language courses, the examiners completed four days of professional training in 2009 (see ZLI 10 on page 38).
This figure is expected to increase in 2010 as new staff are required to undergo a mandatory training programme.
Based on the long-term strategic objective of "Continuing development and growth", the 2008-2011 Training Framework and the continuing training pathways adopted in 2009, the Training Unit has made improvements in the content of the training activities and developed new training courses in line with the priorities decided by the Court.
Cooperation with the other institutions and with interinstitutional bodies such as the European School of Administration has also been successfully pursued.
Box 5 provides a portrait of the staff of an examination department within the Court to give the reader a picture of the work carried out and the persons involved. 43
44 BOX 5 – THE TEAM COMPETENT TO THE TESTING ON "JUSTIC AND INNER IN THE ESTIMATE BALKAN" The Western Balkans were marked by violence in the past.
The European Union's interest in this region is to promote security and long-term stability.
The rule of law, border security and the fight against corruption are fundamental prerequisites for EU accession and are a major challenge in the Western Balkans.
The European Commission is the main donor of funding in the region.
The Court's report on the effectiveness of Commission projects in the field of justice and home affairs for the Western Balkans (Special Report No 12/2009) in 2009 provided an insight into the situation in this particularly important area.
The audit covered investment projects as well as institutional building projects in the four areas of asylum, integrated border management, justice and police.
33 completed projects were assessed on the spot, including an asylum centre, a prison in Albania and a court in Bosnia and Herzegovina responsible for human rights and war crimes.
In addition, several EU-funded border crossing points in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia were visited to assess whether EU action has led to improvements.
The team responsible for conducting the audit worked closely with the rapporteur, Maarten B. Engwirda.
The heads of the audit unit were Raija Peltonen and Ossi Louko; the team was headed by Jussi Bright.
The examiners involved were Enrico Grassi and Miroslav Matej, with Horst Fischer and Jan Pieter Lingen from the cabinet of Maarten B. Engwirda also playing an important role.
From left to right: Raija PELTONEN, Head of Unit; Jan Pieter LINGEN, Head of Cabinet; Horst FISCHER, Cabinet Director; Jussi BRIGHT, Chief Auditor; Maarten B. ENGWIRDA, Member of the Court; Ossi LOUKO, Head of Unit; Enrico GRASSI, Chief Auditor; Miroslav MATEJ, Financial Auditor; E. E.
TRANSLATION Translation is an important activity of audit support that enables the Court to fulfil its mission and to achieve its communication objectives.
In 2009, the total volume of translation increased by 5.2% compared to 2008.
The proportion of translation services provided on time was over 95%.
The language support of the auditors in connection with verification visits and in the drafting of reports has been increased.
The Directorate for Translation and the INTOSAI Working Groups also supported other specific needs related to the audit activities of the Court.
In January 2010, a new computerised application (Artemis) was introduced to improve the efficiency of translation management.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology provides the auditors with essential tools and services.
The main developments in 2009 were: • Simplification of processes and continuation of the transition to a paperless office by applying automated permits (visibility notes) and electronic forms, introduction of electronic signatures and launching work to set up an archive database; • Improvement of the security of the Court's IT infrastructure by establishing a data recovery centre and launching a further development of the Lotus Note Platform, the Court's basic framework for the Court's news and audit documentation/archiving systems; • Adoption of a long-term IT plan for the period 2010-2012 to align the information technology sector with the Court's main audit strategic objectives and pursue efforts to deliver high-quality services. 45
46 MANAGEMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE The Directorate for Finance and Support Services is responsible for administrative services and infrastructure.
These include internal controls and accounting, administrative and logistical services.
In 2009, the Directorate focused on reorganising its services to improve efficiency and effectiveness and to release staff for redeployment in favour of audit services.
This reorganisation resulted in a reduction in the number of units in the Directorate (from five to three) and the implementation of several posts in audit services.
One important activity of the Directorate was the construction of a new courtyard building (the "K3 Building").
In 2009, a project manager was appointed after a call for tenders.
Construction will begin in March 2010 and is expected to be completed in 2013.
The time and cost framework for the project will continue to be respected.
TESTS In the course of the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to Member States and other recipient countries from EU funds to obtain adequate audit evidence.
The visits are usually carried out by central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and payment of EU funds, as well as by the final beneficiaries.
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors and the duration of an audit trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of audit and the distance.
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member State visited, which provide useful logistical and practical support.
The following graph gives an overview of the number of audit visits carried out by the Court in 2009 in the EU Member States (300).
In addition, 36 verification visits were carried out outside the Union in 2009.
47 50 40 30 20 10 0 TESTS IN THE MEMBER STATES (total: 300) 48 34 30 23 17 17 16 15 15 14 88 77 666 4 333 2222 11 France Germany Spain Italy Greece United Kingdom Poland Portugal Belgium Netherlands Denmark Hungary Austria Sweden Czech Republic Slovakia Lithuania Ireland Slovenia Latvia Romania Cyprus Finland Bulgaria Luxembourg Malta Estonia
In 2009, the overall budget implementation rate was more than 92 %.
For Title 1 (members and staff of the institution), this rate is 88%, lowest in Chapter 14 (other staff and external services) (82%), mainly due to the non-or under-employment of posts and the savings achieved.
For Title 2 (buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure), the average execution rate is almost 100%.
The amount of payments charged to Chapter 20 (buildings) depends on the work on the construction of the second extension of the courtyard (K3 building).
The first tranche of funding for this project, amounting to EUR 55 million, was approved for the 2009 budget, which was committed and partly paid in 2009.
The remaining funds for the K3 building were transferred to 2010 and are intended to cover the costs incurred by the project manager on behalf of the Court on the basis of contracts with construction companies.
The appropriations will be used in the manner set out in the Court's request to the European Parliament and the Council at the end of 2008.
FINANCIAL YEAR 2009 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services Final appropriations 11 718 91 986 4 597 3 290 Commitments 11 318 79 903 3 800 Payments (1 000 euros) 11 205 79 744 3 763 2 148 1 678 98 538 7 313 3 604 718 275 655 1 055 13 620 112 158 Use of appropriations as % (commitments/allocated appropriations) 96.59 86.86 82.66 86.66 87.66 99.97 99.84 94.12 91.75 99.09 97.22 99.74 92.39
BUDGET 2010 The Court's 2010 budget accounts for around 0.1% of the EU's total budget and 1.87 % of the EU's administrative appropriations.
The table below shows the breakdown of appropriations by budget line.
Staff resources account for around 76% of the total budget in 2010.
The 2010 budget budget was reduced by 21% compared to 2009, mainly due to the reduction in the allocation of funds for the new Court building (C3).
The construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of 79 million euros, which will be financed in four consecutive years: 55 million euros in 2009, 11 million euros in 2010, 7 million euros in 2011 and 6 million euros in 2012.
49 BUDGET 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 23 – Current operating expenditure 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications 2010 4 590 3 450 2 861 877 404 868 2 389 29 421 2009 4 497 3 290 2 684 981 439 868 1 921 2008 13 364 94 246 11 718 92 086 (1 000 Euro) 12 061 88 712 4 248 3 212 2 2 286 20 – Building Title 1 Total 118 511 18 518 6 365 114 275 62 891 6 269 110 519 12 110 5 879 1 147 425 876 1 813 Title 2 Total 73 369 Court of Auditors 147 932 187 644 22 250 132 769
50 SERVICE "INTERNE REVISION" The Court's Internal Audit Service is intended to assist the Court in the implementation of its objectives by systematically assessing risk management, internal control and administrative procedures.
In addition, the Internal Audit Service is proposing to increase the efficiency of the Court.
This requires a continuous evaluation of internal control systems within the Court to assess their effectiveness.
In 2009, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused its work on auditing accounting (audit of accounts), checking ex-ante controls, auditing the payroll and deposit accounts, monitoring public procurement contracts and procedures, and analysing the promotion process.
Most of the audit recommendations issued by the Internal Auditor in 2009 were accepted by the audited bodies and included in action plans for corrective action.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee shall monitor the activities of the Internal Auditor and ensure his independence.
It shall also examine and approve the work programme and the internal auditor's reports and, if necessary, entrust them with specific audit tasks.
In 2009, the Internal Audit Service was audited and certified by an independent auditor, Deloitte S.A.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE HOFES The report of the independent auditor on the Court of Auditors' annual accounts for the financial year 2008 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 23 October 2009 (OJ L 347, 31.12.2009, p.
In its opinion, the Court's independent auditor (PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL) concluded: "As regards the annual accounts, we believe that the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2008 and of the financial position and cash flows for the year ending on that date in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the above Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Court of Auditors.
52 52 DECLARATION OF THE REFERRED TO IN PROVIDED FOR INSTITUTION I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, that the information provided to the Court for the preparation of this report is accurate and accurate13, and • confirms with reasonable certainty that the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes envisaged and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions14.
This sufficient security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and on the information available to him, such as the results of ex post controls, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's reports on previous financial years.
The undersigned confirms that he has no knowledge of any unreported circumstance which could harm the interests of the institution.
Luxembourg, 12 February 2010 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary General 13 "Right and accurate in this context means that a reliable, complete and correct picture of the state of service is provided.
14 The term ‘involved operations' refers in this context to the operations for which the undersigned is an authorising officer by delegation.
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2009 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2010 – 52 pp. – 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 doi:10.2865/26518
Where can I obtain EU publications? Publications subject to payment: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • via the bookstore, which contains the title, publisher and/or ISBN number; • directly through one of our sales outlets.
You can obtain their contact details on the Internet (http://bookshop.europa.eu) or by sending a fax to +352 2929-42758.
Free publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at the European Commission's representations and delegations.
You can obtain their contact details on the Internet (http://ec.europa.eu) or by sending a fax to +352 2929-42758. www.eca.europa.eu
European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG www.eca.europa.eu ISBN 978-92-9207-635-1 QJ-AA-10-001-EN-C
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2010
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS PROCUREMENT GUIDELINE VALUES The Court of Auditors has committed itself to the following values: The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, it contributes to improving EU financial management while acting as independent guardian of the financial interests of the EU citizens by promoting accountability and transparency.
An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, distinguished by its integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism, quality and impact, and providing valuable support to its audience to improve EU financial management.
INDEPENDENT, INTEGRATION AND UNPARTY PROFESSIONALITY VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution whose members and staff produce relevant, timely high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, take into account the concerns of its addressee group and include important and guiding statements recognising the value of the individual, supporting the development of special skills and rewarding performance Promoting team spirit through effective communication Supplying its addressee group with appropriate audit results, rejecting any form of influence through external instructions or pressure Maintaining a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of its work Active participation in the further development of public financial control at EU level and increasing efficiency worldwide in all aspects of its work Participation in effective improvement of the management of the EU budget and contributing to strengthening accountability for the management of EU funds
3 CONTENTS Page 4 – 5 7 9 – 25 9 – 22 23-25 26–45 26–27 28–33 34–39 40–42 43–45 PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT 2010 AT A LAST OUR ACTIVITIES Audit reports and opinions Cooperation with other SAIs OUR MANAGEMENT Implementation of the strategy for 2009-2012 Measurement data on the Court's performance in 2010 Audit support Financial information Auditing and accountability
4 PRESIDENCY OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome to the fourth edition of the Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors. This year we took the opportunity to re-organise the content, namely the two main sections "Our activities" and "Our management", and for the first time we presented an overview of all performance indicators.
In 2010, the Court of Auditors provided two important opportunities to participate in the debate on the reform of EU financial management.
At the beginning of the year, the Court presented an opinion to the new Commission on the main risks and challenges of improving EU financial management and an opinion on the Commission's proposals for amending the Financial Regulation for the EU's general budget towards the end of the year.
With a view to 2011, the Court will continue to implement its values and further expand the performance and earnings achieved.
We will once again present high-quality, independent and objective reports and opinions that contribute to improving EU financial management and promote accountability and transparency.The Court will continue to closely monitor developments in the EU's economic governance and address the new legislative proposals that impact on EU financial management after 2013.
We plan to publish 45 annual reports, i.e. the annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget and on the European Development Funds, as well as the special annual reports on agencies, institutions and other bodies.
Special reports provide an important opportunity to achieve added value, focusing on areas at high risk and on topics of particular relevance to the target groups.The Court intends, in particular, to report on the quality of EU expenditure in a wide range of areas ranging from financial instruments and the SME Guarantee Facility to projects financed by the EU in the field of eGovernment and the single payment scheme in agriculture.
In pursuing its strategy for 2009-2012, the Court hopes to fully exploit the benefits of its recent reforms, including streamlined decision-making procedures. The Court will continue its efforts to recruit suitable staff, to limit vacancy to a minimum and to promote the professional development of its staff.
Without the commitment and professionalism of all the staff of the farm, we would not have achieved what we have achieved in 2010.
Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President 5 7 2010 AT A GLANCE OF OUR ACTIVITIES o Annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Fund for the financial year 2009 o 40 special annual reports on the various agencies, bodies and other bodies of the EU for the financial year 2009 o 14 special reports, mainly on economic audits o opinion on improving the EU budget o 5 further opinions on new or amended EU acts, including on the proposal to amend the Financial Regulation o participation in international audit practices in the field of public financial control and the professional community, including the preparation of new standards for supreme audit authorities (ISSAI) o pilot project with coordinated audits on the regularity of agricultural expenditure involving the Supreme Audit Authorities of the Netherlands and the Czech Republic OUR MANAGE o presentation of an overview of all key performance indicators, indicating that the main addressees are quite satisfied with the quality of the Court's work o revision of the Court's rules of procedure with the introduction of chambers of administrative sanctions o the implementation of the new decision-making procedures o staff's staff's staff's staff's staff's staff's staff's staff's staff's staff' staff' staff' staff' staff' staff' staff's staff' staff' staff''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
9 OUR ACTIVITIES AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: o Annual reports – with the results of its audits of the accounts and compliance audits on specific financial years (including the separate published special annual reports of the agencies, bodies and other bodies of the European Union); o Special reports – which can be published at any time during the year, with the results of its selected audits, mainly economic audits to assess the economy, efficiency and effectiveness of selected EU revenue and expenditure sectors; o Opinions on draft legislative acts with financial implications.
Number of reports and opinions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports (EU agencies, bodies and other bodies) 23 29 29 37 40 Special reports 11 9 12 18 14 Opinions 8 9 5 1 6 The full version of each report and opinion is available on the Court's website (www.eca.europa.eu).
1 OJ C 303, 9.11.2010. The key statements of the annual report were as follows: • The annual accounts of the European Union are the financial situation and the results of transactions and cash flows in all essential respects. • Except for two areas of expenditure (Economy and Finance), and ‘Administrative and other expenditure', the budget payments remain largely affected by errors. • The Court estimates that the most likely error rate in cohesion expenditure was significantly lower than in previous years, and the overall budget is the Court's estimated error rate in recent years. • The Commission has improved its data on recoveries of unduly paid amounts and other corrections.
However, this information is not yet fully reliable, and the Commission's information on corrective measures does not allow a meaningful comparison with the Court's estimated error rate. In the report, the Court makes recommendations on how to improve financial management by strengthening administrative systems and simplifying regulations and regulations.
The Annual Report on the European Development Funds for 2009 The Court published its Annual Report on the European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2009 on 9 November 2010, together with the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2009.
The Special Annual Reports on EU Agencies, Institutions and other Bodies for 2009 In December 2010, the Court published 40 Special Annual Reports on EU Agencies, Institutions and other bodies for the financial year 20092. 2 OJ C 347, 20.12.2009, p.
The Court concluded that the monitoring and control systems ensure the regularity of payments with a limited degree of effectiveness.In the report, the Court recommended improvements to certain aspects of EDF financial management, including cost-effectiveness of expenditure controls, annual audit checks on completed projects and controls on the use and monitoring of budget support.
12 Special reports adopted in 2010 When selecting and designing its tasks for economic and compliance audits, the Court is always concerned with achieving the greatest possible impact and with the best possible use of resources provided for these tasks.
In selecting the subjects, the Court takes into account the following factors: • the risks to economic viability or compliance with legal standards in the revenue or expenditure sector concerned; • the level of revenue or expenditure concerned; • the time elapsed since any prior examination; • the future developments within the relevant legal or operational framework; • the political and public interest.
In order to obtain the necessary audit evidence, the selected economic and compliance audits must be carefully planned and carried out. Furthermore, the Court gives the audited bodies the opportunity to comment on its findings and to formulate answers before the report is published.
As a result, these examinations usually take more than one year.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS EN IMPROVING TRANSPORT PERFORMANCE ON TRANS-EUROPEAN RAIL AXES: HAVE EU RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS BEEN EFFECTIVE?
Special Report No 8 2010 ISSN XXXXX-XXX
13 MAIN APPS OF A SELECT ECONOMICITY or COMPLIANCE TEST Preliminary study to determine the feasibility of the test with details.
Detailed planning with the definition of objectives and scope, the approach to be used and the methods to be used.
Analysis of the findings and confirmation of the facts by the body under examination.
Preparation of the draft special report.
Contradictory procedure with the EU institution under review.
3 The figures reflect the recent changes to the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework and current prices (source: European Commission).
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of the support measures "Design studies and "Development of new infrastructures" in the Sixth Framework Programme (Special Report 2/2010) – "Design studies" are intended to examine feasibility aspects of potential future research institutions and the measure "Development of new infrastructures" is intended to support the development of new or improved existing infrastructures.
In the course of the audit, the Court examined whether the two measures have effectively contributed to the objectives of the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (FP6) infrastructure activities for 2002-2006. • Impact assessments in the EU institutions: do they help in decision-making?
(Special Report No 3/2010) – Impact assessments are one of the cornerstones of better regulation policy to improve and simplify EU legislative proposals. The assessment analysed whether the Commission's impact assessments have effectively supported decision-making in the EU institutions. The comments made in this report are also relevant for other budgetary areas.
• Are the Leonardo da Vinci mobility measures designed and managed to produce effective results?
(Special Report No 4/2010) – The mobility projects of the Leonardo da Vinci programme enable organisations active in the field of vocational training to provide participants with study visits in another European country. The measures are part of the integrated lifelong learning programme. In the course of the audit, an evaluation of the design and management of the Commission and the national agencies has been carried out to assess whether the measures are likely to achieve their objectives. • Improving transport performance on the trans-European rail axes: Did EU investment in railway infrastructure have an effect?
(Special Report No 8/2010) (see box "Initiation of an economic impact assessment"). • Is EU spending on structural measures in the water supply of households used to the best extent?
(Special Report No 9/2010) – Over EUR 4 billion were allocated to support projects in the field of water supply infrastructure for households from the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund during the 2000-2006 programming period.The Court examined whether these funds were used effectively to address a number of needs such as increasing water availability, extending geographical coverage, improving the efficiency of water supply systems and improving the quality of services. 15
16 PROCESSING A REVIEW OF THE ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT IMPROVEMENT OF TRANS-EUROPEAN IRON BANKS' TRANS-EUROPEAN TRANS-EUROPEAN BANKS: ARE EU INVESTMENTS EFFECTIVE INFRASTRUCTURE? 
In view of the revision of the TEN-T guidelines due for 2011, the Court's report was presented at a particularly favourable time.The Court recommended that the Commission: • cooperate with Member States and the railway authorities to identify the trans-European corridors in which there is a significant need and to develop knowledge and improve analytical bases where necessary; • strengthen the emphasis on reducing practical constraints on international rail transport; • promote and facilitate cooperation between Member States' railway sector bodies in order to plan developments together and to achieve common solutions to practical problems.
17 "The test presented the team with some challenges," reports Gareth Roberts, head of the audit team. "We had to get to know the realities of European rail transport very quickly and we got to see some examples of success of fantastic modern railways, but also some network sections that seemed to come from another age.
We wanted to explore the extent to which the European rail system gradually developed from a patchwork to a network.
Up to 10 examiners were involved in the work on site, as we had to cover many different languages. "I really enjoyed working on this test.
Since then I have become a fan of the railway!', says Andrej Minarovič, the inspector responsible for the work in Germany and Austria.
At the end of the test, Fernando Pascual Gil was nicknamed "Mulwurf" within the team because he had spent some time in railway tunnels in the Alps and the Pyrenees. The audit team visited eight Member States and examined the impact of 21 rail projects co-financed by the European Union under the trans-European transport networks and cohesion policy on trans-European rail transport.
To this end, the team members travelled by freight trains over and through the Alps and visited major tunnel construction sites.
These visits were a valuable addition to the findings of the auditors from the review of reports, surveys of railway workers and the usual financial analyses.
18 Conservation and management of natural resources With a budget of EUR 413 billion for 2007-2013, the EU has extensive powers and political responsibility in the fields of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment. Three quarters of the funds will be spent on agricultural markets and direct payments to farmers, financed by the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), the "first pillar" of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
More than one fifth of the expenditure is devoted to support for rural development, financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second "pillar of the CAP".
Agriculture and rural development are subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Implementation of the Leader approach to rural development (Special Report No 5/2010) – Leader is a bottom-up approach based on local partnerships to support rural development. The audit examined whether the Leader approach was implemented in a way that would add value to the traditional top-down approach while minimising the risks to the sound financial management. • Has the sugar market reform achieved its main objectives?
(Special Report No 6/2010) – The EU carried out a profound reform of its sugar sector in 2006, aimed at ensuring the competitiveness of the EU sugar industry, stabilising markets and ensuring supply and ensuring a fair standard of living for the agricultural population.
The EU as a global partner In addition to enlargement, the EU has three main objectives in the field of external relations: to achieve stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood ("the EU and its neighbourhood policy"), to actively support sustainable development at international level ("the EU as a partner for sustainable development"), to promote global political governance and to ensure strategic and civil security ("the EU as a global player").
Expenditure is mainly managed directly by the Commission through its central services or delegations.
• Commission management of the veterinary control system for meat imports following the 2004 health legislation reform (Special Report No 14/2010) - Veterinary controls on imports are an essential part of EU food safety policy and contribute to reducing the risk of diseases and health crises that may cost the EU budget a high amount of money. The audit looked at how the Commission monitors the EU veterinary control system at border inspection posts, introduced in 2006 under the reform of food hygiene legislation.
In 2010, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: • Commission management of general budget support in ACP countries, Latin American and Asian countries (Special Report No 11/2010) – General budget support is generally considered by many donors, including the European Commission, as the most effective way of providing development aid.
The audit examined whether the Commission effectively managed its budget support programmes in the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States, Latin America and Asia. 19
20 • EU development assistance for basic education in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia (Special Report 12/2010) – The "Education for All" and the Millennium Development Goals initiative committed the EU and the international donor community to ensuring primary education for all children, eliminating gender inequalities and improving education quality. The audit looked at whether EU development assistance has contributed to these goals in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia and whether the Commission managed its interventions satisfactorily.
Revenue The European Union budget is primarily financed by own resources and other revenue. Traditional own resources – mainly customs duties – account for around 12% and VAT own resources for an additional 12% of total revenue. The bulk of the EU own resources (70%) come from own resources derived from gross national income, which ensure that the budget is always balanced. • Has the new European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument been successfully launched and achieved in the Southern Caucasus (Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia)?
(Special Report No 13/2010) – The European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI) provides a framework for the planning and management of assistance to partner countries and regions.
Since 2007, more than 311 million euros have been allocated to three countries in the Southern Caucasus, and the study has examined whether the ENPI was successfully launched there and whether it achieved results.
In 2010, the Court adopted a special report on • Simplified customs procedures (No 1/2010) – In simplified customs procedures, authorised economic operators benefit from accelerated customs clearance and a simplified system of payment of EU revenue.
The audit assessed the effectiveness of the Commission's legal framework and the control approach adopted by the Member States and the Commission's and the Member States' legal framework.Opinions issued in 2010 The Court also contributed to improving EU financial management by delivering opinions on proposals for new or amended acts with financial implications.
21 22 THE REVIEW OF THE FINANCIAL REGULATION FROM THE VIEW OF THE COURT Opinion No 6/2010 concerns an important proposal by the Commission for a revision of the Financial Regulation, which lays down rules on how the EU's budget is collected, spent and recorded.
Based on its statements in opinion 1/2010 (see above), the Court also points out that to improve the quality of EU expenditure in certain areas of the EU budget, simpler and better legislation and other measures to support, promote and require economic action by managers at the Commission, the other institutions and in the Member States are needed.
The ongoing contacts are maintained by liaison officers appointed by the individual SAIs.
The pilot project will be completed in 2011. 24 Network of the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries The Court actively participated in meetings of the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Turkey, Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia)4 which took place in parallel with the meetings of the Contact Committee.
4 As at February 2011. Other forms of cooperation The Court continued its active participation and participation in improving international auditing principles and procedures through its membership of European and international organisations for public financial control bodies, including INTOSAI5 and its European regional group EUROSAI.
A delegation of the Court took part in the XXth INCOSAI Congress, which took place in South Africa from 22 to 27 November 2010.
Since 2004, when the Court became a full member of INTOSAI, it has actively participated in the subcommittees on the various types of examination. In addition, the Court contributed to the subcommittee "Promoting best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews" and supported the increased activities in the field of the development of expertise of INTOSAI members.
Since 2008, the Court has chaired the Working Group on Accountability and the Audit of Disaster Relief.
An important objective of this work group is to develop guidelines on the accountability of disaster relief, identify and disseminate best practices, focusing on activities directed to stakeholders (multilateral institutions, relief organisations, governments, private auditors). The interim report of the working group was presented to the INTOSAI Congress in November 2010.
In 2010, the Court also participated in the INTOSAI Task Force "Global Financial Crisis" (the "Global Financial Crisis"). Within the framework of EUROSAI, the Court is represented in the Environmental Working Group and the IT Working Group and participates in the EUROSAI Training Committee.
The Court also participated in the working group set up at the VII EUROSAI Congress in 2008 to draw up a guide on best practices for achieving quality within an SAI. It is also one of the auditors of EUROSAI. 25
26 OUR MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTATION OF STRATEGY FOR 2009-2012 In recent years, the Court has initiated an internal reform process following a self-assessment and peer review procedure (2008) on the framework conditions for its audit management.
A strategy for 2009-20126 was developed to address the identified weaknesses, with the overarching objectives for the period being: o maximising the overall impact of the audits; o improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
Many of the priority actions foreseen in the strategy are already completed, and the remaining measures will be implemented in 2011 and 2012. Key achievements in 2010 include: o meeting the target of submitting 12 to 15 annual reports on economic audits; o developing new products – a document on risks and challenges for the new Commission (Opinion No 1/2010) and establishing a new system for reporting on the follow-up to the Court's recommendations from 2012; o revising the Court's rules of procedure to streamline decision-making procedures through the introduction of chambers and strengthening the governance structure; o drawing up an overview of all performance indicators; o developing the approach for the annual audit of the EU budget (declaration of reliability) on the basis of recommendations from an internal expert body supported by external experts; o redeploying a number of posts from support services to audit services.
6 The audit strategy 2009-2012 is available on the Court's website.
27 INTRODUCTION OF COMMITMENTS ON THE NEW RULES OF PROCEDURE One of the main recommendations arising from the Court's reform process was that the Court should make use of the possibility provided for in Article 287(4) of the Treaty to allow certain categories of reports and opinions of chambers to be adopted while maintaining the principle of collegiality.
After the Council approved the necessary amendments to the Court's Rules of Procedure, Chambers were established on 1 June 2010 and are composed of Court members and adopt special reports, special annual reports and opinions on draft acts. Prior to that, all these reports and opinions were adopted by the entire College, and this remains the case with the annual reports on the EU budget and the EDFs.
Although most of the Court's reports are now accepted by the Chambers, the Chambers have the possibility to transfer their documents to the Court for adoption.
All members may attend meetings of chambers to which they are not members without voting rights.
The members of the Court
28 MEASUREMENT DATA ON THE HOUSE'S PROPERTY IN 2010 Since 2008, the Court has gradually developed a set of key performance indicators (CPIs) to inform o management of progress made in implementing the 2009-2012 objectives; o support the decision-making process; o provide performance-related information to the Court's audience.
As a survey of all indicators is available for the first time in 2010, this year serves as a reference year for future assessments of progress.The Court is very pleased with the results it achieved in 2010 in its key performance indicators, in particular on the quality and impact of its work.
More importantly, however, the indicators clearly show the areas where progress is needed and the problems to be addressed in order to achieve a future performance increase.
29 Quality and impact of the Court's work The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of assessments by the addressees and expert reviews and follow-up to its recommendations.
Assessment by addressees In a survey, the Court asked the main addressees of its reports (the European Parliament's Budgetary Control Committee and the Council's Budgetary Committee) and the main audited bodies (mainly European Commission staff) to assess the quality and impact of the annual reports published in 2009 (the general budget and the EDF) and special reports.
The assessment should be based on a five-stage scale (1 – very bad, 2 – bad, 3 – appropriate, 4 – good, 5 – very good).
2010 Objective Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's reports by a main addressee 4.2 ≥4 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audited body The result shows that the Court's main addressees are on average "good".
The Court is committed to maintaining or improving this level of performance.
Experts' reviews Two external bodies have reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of Court reports published in 2009 and 2010. e reviewers have assessed eight special reports and the annual report on the general budget and the EDF for both years and assessed the quality of different aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "high quality quality" (4).
2010 target 3.0 ≥ 3 3.7 ≥4 Audits of the Court's content and presentation of reports by external experts The result shows that the auditors consider the quality of Court's reports to be "satisfactory".
The reviews have provided valuable insights and the resulting recommendations are used to improve the quality of future reports.
30 Follow-up to recommendations The Court uses its audit experience primarily in the form of recommendations to contribute to improving financial management.To make changes, the Court's recommendations must first be accepted by the audited bodies and then implemented.The indicator is based on the recommendations published in 2009, i.e. the latest available annual and special reports.
2010 target 90 % ≥ 90 % Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audited body The Court is committed to maintaining or even improving this high level of acceptance in its recommendations.
In 2010, the Court established a system for monitoring the implementation of the recommendations by the audited bodies.
In the coming years, this system will serve as a basis for a further indicator of the extent to which recommendations are implemented in practice and will lead to improvements.
It will also provide the Court with valuable insights into improving the quality of its recommendations and thus increasing their acceptance by the audited bodies.
31 Efficiency and effectiveness of resource use The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its resource use according to its ability to present reports and audit findings on time, to fulfil its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff.Purpose of reports The Court strives to accept all planned reports within the specified deadlines.
The dates for publication of the annual reports and the specific annual reports shall be those laid down in legislation.
In the case of special reports where there is no publication date specified in legislation, the date of adoption shall be deemed to be the date of adoption.
2010 target Number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned 90% 100% Percentage of reports adopted on time 80% 100% Overall, the Court failed to meet the target in 2010.
The Court adopted fewer reports in 2010 than planned, the performance level is comparable to that of the previous year (91% in 2009), and although the proportion of reports adopted on time increased in 2010 (80% compared to 67% in 2009), further improvement is needed.
While all annual reports and all special annual reports were adopted and published on schedule, only three special reports were published on schedule.
Six special reports delayed adoption until 2011.
The Court aims to achieve the targets by introducing further measures to improve the management of the procedures of special reports by the end of 2012.
2010 Target Percentage of audit notifications issued on time 54% 80% by 2012 The performance achieved in 2010 is not yet at the required level, but significant progress has been made over the past two years to achieve the target (43% in 2009 and 27% in 2008).
The Court will continue its efforts to achieve the target.External assessment of financial management The Court intends to obtain a full audit opinion on the annual accounts and resources used by its independent auditor and discharge from the European Parliament following a favourable Council recommendation.
2010 target Yes Yes Unlimited audit opinion of the independent auditor and discharge
Professional Training In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training.
2010 target Average number of training days per person 5.7 days ≥ 5 days 33 In 2010, the required level of performance was reached, which means an improvement compared to 2009 (average of 4 days).
Staff satisfaction level In an internal employee satisfaction survey conducted in 2009, 86% of the Court's employees were generally satisfied with their work, with a total of 2.8 on a scale of 1 to 4. Each value above 2.5 indicates general satisfaction.The Court strives to maintain or improve this result when a similar survey is conducted at the end of 2012.
34 AUDIT SUPPORT The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by its specialised services, which provide the logistical and technical know-how that enables the Court to o recruit, retain and motivate its staff and develop its professional skills; o disseminate the results of the audit in all the official languages of the EU; o make the best use of information technologies; o manage its budget and maintain its infrastructure; o carry out audit visits to all countries where EU funds are spent.
Staff Staff allocation The Court's main capital is its staff. At 31 December 2010, the staffing of the Court amounted to 889 staff (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 557 are in audit chambers (including 123 staff in members' cabinets), 151 in the Directorate of Translation, 157 in administrative support services and 24 in the President's services. In 2010, with a view to achieving the best possible resource use, the possibilities of efficiency enhancement were explored and implemented in all activities by simplifying procedures and rationalising services.
Where possible, the number of posts released outside the audit area has been transferred to the audit service, increasing the number of posts used for audit tasks by 6%, which will continue in 2011.
Breakdown of the Court's posts at 31 December 2008 2009 2010 Examination chambers 501 525 557 Translation 163 163 151 Support 173 171 157 Presidential services 20 21 24 Total 857 880 889
35 men women The following graphs show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2010: like the other EU institutions, the Court operates an equal opportunities policy within the framework of its human resources policy and recruitment.
20 of the 67 directors and heads of units (30%) are women, which represents a steady increase over previous years.
Most of them are, however, in the Directorate for Translation and Administration.
2001 2010 54% 46% 50% 50%
36 Assistants – Secretaries (AST function group) Auditors – Administrators (AD function group) Men Women 2009 2010 2009 2010 Age profile 2009 2010 Men Women 27 % 73% 63% 31% Directors and Head of Unit 69% 62% 38% Men Women The proportion of women at AD level continues to rise due to new recruitment.
According to the last wave of recruitment, 45% of employees in grades AD5 to AD8 are women.
74% 26% 70% 30% The age profile of the staff in active employment on 31 December 2010 shows that 62% of the Court's staff are 44 years old or younger. Age 20-24 0% 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 24 of the 67 Directors and Head of Unit are 55 years old or older.
4% 18% 20% 20% 15% 12% 7% 4%
37 Professional training The profession of the examiner requires continuous training to keep pace with new developments and acquire new skills.
In 2010, efforts were made to implement the staff redeployment plan adopted by the Secretary-General, which aims to move posts and staff from the translation service to the audit service in 2011. Based on the 2008-2011 Training Framework Plan and the training pathways adopted in 2009, the Professional Training Unit carried out substantive improvements in the training measures in 2010 and developed new training courses in line with the priorities decided by the Court.
In addition, the Directorate for Translation provided valuable linguistic support to auditors on mission and in subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
The Directorate for Translation and the INTOSAI Working Groups also supported other specific needs related to the audit activities of the Court.
Work on the Artemis project to improve the functions of this important IT application for translators continued in 2010. In addition, the Directorate "Translation" of the Court actively participated in interinstitutional and international specialist bodies.
38 Information Technology Information Technology (IT) plays a key role in implementing the Court's overarching objectives for the 2009-2012 period. In 2010 the following developments were noted: • the establishment of a cooperation platform in line with the Strategic IT Plan 2010-2012 to support knowledge exchange, particularly in the audit area; • the continuation of efforts to optimise and simplify internal procedures through electronic workflows to increase efficiency and effectiveness; the management and infrastructure of the Directorate for Finance and Support Services; the task of the Court's auditors is to provide efficient, effective and timely adequate support services and to ensure that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all Court activities.
In 2010, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and effectiveness in order to release resources for relocation to the audit service. • Use of smart phones and laptop com-puters to enable the efficient execution of audit work at any location and at any time, including within the Court's contingency plan.
In 2010, following an agreement with the budgetary authority on the financing of the K3 building, the focus was on the preparation of tenders for construction and ancillary services and their publication by the project manager.
A large part of the contracts for this project were awarded during the year. The time and budget framework of the construction project is being respected. Completion is scheduled for end of 2012.
39 Audit visits During the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to Member States and other recipients of EU funds as well as to the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations.
TESTS IN 2010 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Visits are usually made by central and local authorities involved in the granting, management and disbursement of EU funds and by the final beneficiaries.
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member State visited, which provide useful logistical and practical support.
52 38 32 30 26 23 15141312111010 9 7 65555433321221111111111111 France Germany United Kingdom Italy Spain Netherlands Sweden Portugal Greece Denmark Luxembourg Hungary Poland Ireland Austria Romania Belgium Slovenia Slovakia Czech Republic Lithuania Bulgaria Cyprus Finland Latvia Estonia Malta Croatia Ethiopia Mali Rwanda Bangladesh Bolivia Bosnia and Herzegovina Burkina Faso Dominican Republic Ghana Israel UNMIK Malawi Nepal Norway South Africa Sudan Switzerland Uganda Ukraine USA (UN)
40 FINANCIAL INFORMATION The European Court of Auditors is financed by the general budget of the European Union, with our budget accounting for around 0.1% of the total EU expenditure and less than 2% of the total administrative expenditure.
Implementation of the 2010 budget Title 1: Members and staff of the institution Final appropriations Commitments BUDGET YEAR 2010 Use of appropriations in %(commitments/allocated appropriations) Payments (in EUR 1 000) 10 – Members of the institution 13 364 12 980 98 % 12 687 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 94 245 87 459 93 % 87 104 14 – Other staff and external services 4 604 3 590 78 % 3 567 162 – Missions 3 450 3 231 94 % 2 775 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution 2 861 1 887 66 % 1 435 Title 1 Total 118 524 109 147 92 % 107 568 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenses 20 – Buildings 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications 18 561 18 390 99% 7 656 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 6 365 6 365 100 % 4 035 212, 214, 216 – Mobile and ancillary costs 834 771 92 % 242 – Running expenses 473 473 Total expenditure on the service
41 In 2010, the overall budget implementation rate was 93 %.
42 2011 budget The 2011 budget budget was reduced by 2.44% compared to 2010, mainly due to the reduction in the budget for the new courtyard building (K3). Construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of EUR 79 million, which will be financed in five consecutive years: EUR 55 million in 2009, EUR 11 million in 2010, EUR 7 million in 2011 and EUR 3 million in 2012 and 2013 respectively.
BUDGET 2011 2010 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution 12 930 13 364 (in EUR 1 000) 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 95 957 3 825 3 652 2 485 6 500 816 422 893 2 240 25 482 144 331 94 246 4 603 3 450 2 861 6 365 877 404 868 2 389 29 421 147 945 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure Title 1 Total 118 849 118 524 20 – Buildings 14 611 18 518 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 23 – Current operating expenses 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications Total of the Court of Auditors Title 2 Total of Title 2
Audit and ACCOUNTS Internal Audit The Court's Internal Audit Service is intended to assist the Court in the implementation of its objectives by means of a systematic, methodological evaluation of risk management, internal control and administrative procedures. Furthermore, the Court's Internal Audit Service makes proposals to increase the Court's efficiency based on assessments of the Court's internal control systems' effectiveness.
In 2010, the Court's Internal Audit Service focused its work on following up its recommendations from previous years, reviewing the reform of the Court's ex ante review system, reviewing the Court's implementation of the Court's SOS II/SAP system, and ensuring that the video surveillance system complies with data protection rules and requirements.
In 2009, the Internal Audit Service was audited and certified in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The auditor's audit report – PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL – on the Court of Auditors' annual accounts for the financial year 2009 was published in October 20107.
OJ C 279 of 15.10.2010.
44 AUDIT CASES OF THE INDEPENDENT FINAL AUDIT AVERAGE 
45 DECLARATION OF THE REFERRED REFERRED TO IN THE DECLARATION I, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare in its capacity as authorising officer by delegation, o that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable certainty that • the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes envisaged and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and • the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the proper handling of fraud or suspected fraud. This sufficient security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and on the information available to him, such as the results of ex post checks, the internal auditor's reports and the audit reports of previous financial years, as well as the audit report of the independent auditor.
The examination chambers I to IV cover various revenue and expenditure areas, while the fifth, the CEAD chamber, is responsible for horizontal matters. The chambers are supported by examination directorates.
Each member is responsible for specific tasks, primarily in the examination area, and the members submit proposals for examination and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible to the respective Chamber and the Court.
The members are supported by their cabinet staff and the audit team appointed for the audit task.
ISSN 1684-0666 2011 THE ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT OF EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS
Europe Direct is a service to help you find answers to your questions about the European Union Freephone number (*): 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (*) Certain mobile telephone operators do not allow access to 00 800 numbers or these calls may be billed.
A great deal of additional information on the European Union is available on the Internet. It can be accessed through the Europa server (http://europa.eu).
Cataloguing data can be found at the end of the publication.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2012 ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693 © European Union, 2012 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
Printed in Belgium PRINTED ON ELEMENTARY WHITE CHLORINE-FREE PAPER (ECF)
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2011
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS PROCUREMENT GUIDELINE VALUES The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, he contributes to improving EU financial management while acting as independent guardian of the financial interests of the EU citizens.
An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, distinguished by its integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism, quality and impact, and providing valuable support to its audience to improve EU financial management.
INDEPENDENT, INTEGRATION AND INTEGRATION PROFESSIONALITY VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Independence, integrity and impartiality for the institution, its members and staff.
impartial examination, which takes into account the positions of the bodies concerned but rejects any form of influence by instructions or external pressure.
Maintaining a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
To contribute to the further development of public financial control at EU and worldwide level.
The preparation of relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the concerns of its addressees and containing important and indicative statements.
To contribute to an effective improvement of EU management and to strengthening accountability for the management of EU funds.
Promote team spirit through effective communication.
Increase efficiency in all aspects of his work.
3 CONTENTS Page 4 PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT 7 2011 AT A LICK 9 OUR ACTIVITIES 9 Audit reports and opinions 23 Cooperation with other SAIs 28 Other activities 31 OUR MANAGEMENT 31 Implementation of the 2009-2012 strategy 33 Measurement data on the Court's performance in 2011 37 Support for audit activities 43 Financial information 46 Auditing and accountability
4 PREFACE OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome to the annual activity report of the European Court of Auditors 2011.
In 2011, the economic and financial crisis saw significant developments in the EU's economic governance, which have a significant impact on the future use of public funding.
Against this background, the Court published a position paper in May, which highlights the impact of the measures taken to address the financial and economic crisis on accountability, transparency and public financial control.
Later that year, the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCB) of the EU Member States and the European Court of Auditors called on EU decision-makers to ensure that the principles of accountability, transparency and public financial control are properly respected whenever public funds are used.
The euro area SAIs called in particular for appropriate arrangements for public external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
This resulted in a decision to set up an Audit Committee for the Stability Mechanism, to which a member proposed by the Court will be a member.
In 2011, the results of our key performance indicators are encouraging, especially in terms of follow-up to the recommendations accepted by our audited bodies and the assessment of our audit work by addressees and external experts.
We have been able to increase our output in terms of the number of audit reports and opinions adopted in 2011, but we have not managed to achieve the ambitious targets we set ourselves in terms of reporting punctuality.
Our annual reports now contained more detailed information and a new chapter on performance aspects. We also produced 42 special annual reports and 16 special reports, along with seven opinions and a position paper.
The scope of our institution's audit powers in respect of Union revenue and expenditure, in particular in respect of VAT own resources in the Member States, was confirmed by the European Court of Justice in November 2011.
From 2012 onwards, we will be able to report on the extent to which our recommendations are being followed up in practice.
We will also submit our methods of economic assessment to a peer review process with the aim of further improving the process of producing our special reports.
In 2011, we published ethical guidelines to further strengthen the Court's audit management framework, and revised the Court's audit strategies and audit guidelines to streamline the audit process and reporting process.
We will also launch a new employee satisfaction survey in 2012.
Looking ahead, we will complete the preparation of our strategy for the period 2013-2017 in 2012.
Some of the key challenges are already clear: the EU regulatory framework will continue to develop and we must continue to insist on proper compliance with the principles of accountability, transparency and public financial control.
The need for a high quality and timely guarantee of the use of EU funds is constantly increasing and we must develop our audits and reports accordingly.
As the EU is undergoing a constant process of change, we will also endeavour to make the best use of our audit experience to help policy makers improve financial management.
Strengthening the EU's financial accountability is a goal that we share with other actors and we will try to pool our efforts by entering into strategic partnerships.
Finally, like the other EU institutions and bodies, we must be prepared to achieve less with more to improve the efficiency of our organisation.
Meeting these challenges will depend to a significant extent on the efforts of all the Court's staff.
The development of the excellence of our employees – a fundamental value of our institution – is and remains an important concern for us.
With regard to the professionalism, commitment and results achieved by our employees in the past, I am confident that the Court will be able to achieve these future goals.
Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President 5
7 2011 AT A BETWEEN OUR ACTIVITIES o Annual reports on the general budget of the EU and the European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2010 with more detailed information o 42 special annual reports on the various agencies, decentralised bodies and other bodies of the EU for the financial year 2010 o 16 special reports on certain budgetary areas or management issues o 7 opinions with contributions to budgetary reform, such as the modernisation of public procurement policy and the Commission legislative proposal on cohesion expenditure rules after 2013 o Position paper on the consequences of the current financial and economic crisis for public accountability and financial control within the EU and on the role of the Court OUR MANAGEMENT o continue to be encouraged by the results of our key performance indicators, in particular on the quality and impact of our work o adoption of ethical guidelines for further strengthening the audit management framework o revision of audit strategies and audit guidelines of the Court with the aim of streamlining the audit process and reporting process o implementation of administrative staff in the audit area, which contributed to increasing the audit staff's scope in 2008 as a result of the extension work in the second building project, mainly as a result of the construction work in the second building project,
Number of reports and opinions 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised bodies 29 29 37 40 42 Special reports 9 12 18 14 16 Opinions and other statements 9 5 1 6 8 The full version of each report and opinion is available on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in 22 EU official languages.
This led to the publication of the 2010 Annual Report, including the seventeenth Statement of Assurance (DAS), on 10 November 2011.
The 2010 Annual Report presented some changes to improve clarity and information.
These include the reshaping of the themes (and the related annual chapters) among which the Court groups expenditure, the publication of estimated error rates by policy area (see below), increased attention to recommendations to improve financial management and a new chapter on performance aspects.
The Court for the first time published estimated error rates for both the EU budget as a whole and for individual themes.
The error rates are calculated by extrapolating the quantifiable errors detected in the samples of operations examined.
The Court compares the estimated error rate with a materiality threshold of 2 % to determine whether the error is material, taking into account further evidence.
Error rates are not a measure of fraud, but reflect the Court's estimate of the breach of the rules governing expenditure.
This includes non-compliance with public procurement rules, non-eligible or incorrectly calculated costs claimed by EU co-financed projects or excessive area information provided by farmers.
The key statements of the 2010 Annual Report were as follows: o The annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are the financial situation of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year as a whole.
The payments underlying this annual accounts, on the other hand, are largely flawed, with an estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole of 3.7%.
The control systems were partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payments as a whole. o The Court's estimate of error rate in cohesion, energy and transport expenditure (the EU's most error-prone expenditure area) was 7.7% higher than in 2009. o In the other EU expenditure areas, the error rate remained relatively stable.
In the agricultural and natural resources theme, the estimated error rate was 2.3%, which was above the materiality threshold.
However, direct payments to farmers did not show any significant errors. o The proportion of advance payments – pre-financing – within the EU budget has increased significantly.
The accounting rules and supervisory arrangements have not been adapted accordingly. o When planning EU spending programmes, the Commission and Member States should pay more attention to setting SMART objectives, i.e. concrete, measurable, achievable, appropriate and date-based targets, but also to identifying and mitigating potential risks during implementation.
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR 2010 In its Annual Report on the European Development Funds (EDF) for the financial year 2010 (published on 10 November 2011), the Court concluded that the 2010 EDF accounts are appropriate to the financial situation of the EDFs and the results of their operations and cash flows in accordance with the financial rules in all essential respects.
EDF revenue is not subject to substantial errors.
EDF commitments were lawful and correct, despite the non-quantifiable errors detected in the procurement sector.
However, EDF payments for projects were substantially affected by errors, with an estimated error rate of 3.4%.
The errors identified concerned non-compliance with eligibility requirements.
The Court assessed that the control systems established by the EDF only partially guarantee the regularity of payments overall.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE AGENCIES, DECENTRAL BODIES AND OTHER EU INSTITUTIONS FOR 2010 In December 2011, the Court published special annual reports on the financial year 2010 for all 42 agencies, decentralised bodies (e.g. joint undertakings) and other EU bodies (in particular the efficiency of the management of the European Central Bank).
The Court gave an unqualified opinion on all audited entities, except the European GNSS Agency, because certain assets were not included in the accounts, and the ENIAC Joint Undertaking, because the accounts for the financial results were not included in the annual accounts.
The EU agencies and decentralised bodies have been set up by the EU legislator to carry out specific tasks.
Each Agency shall have a mandate, a Management Board, a Director, staff and a budget.
The agencies are active in a number of areas, such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and travel.
11 President Caldeira at the presentation of the 2010 Annual Report at the plenary session of the European Parliament
12 SPECIAL REPORTS ADOPTED IN 2011 In addition to its annual reports, the Court shall publish special reports during the year containing the results of the Court's economic and compliance audits on specific budgetary areas or management issues of its choice.
In selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court is committed to achieving maximum impact and making the best use of its resources.
In selecting the subjects, the Court shall take into account the following factors:
In 2011, the Court adopted 16 special reports on a number of issues, which represents an increase compared to the 14 special reports adopted in 2010.
These special reports are presented below in a concise form under the relevant headings of the financial framework – the EU's multiannual budget.
The special reports are available in 22 EU languages on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in full or from the EU Bookshop.
Sustainable growth 13 Sustainable growth focuses on growth and jobs and covers two themes: competitiveness includes promoting research and technological development, networking Europe, education and training, promoting competitiveness in a fully integrated internal market, the social agenda and the dismantling of nuclear installations.
EU expenditure on growth and employment for the period 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 89.4 billion, i.e. 9.2% of the total, of which nearly two thirds is devoted to research and development. Cohesion for growth and employment is mainly concerned with cohesion policy, which is implemented in the form of funds for specific activities – the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund.
The appropriations will be spent by shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
The EU budget for cohesion for the period 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 348.4 billion (35.7% of the total EU budget).
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o The effectiveness of the SME Guarantee Facility (Special Report No 4/2011) in terms of its design and planning, and the management of its related operations and achievement of its objectives.
The SME Guarantee Facility (SMEG) is a financial instrument managed on behalf of the European Commission by the European Investment Fund. It provides financial intermediaries with guarantees or back-guarantees for loans to SMEs granted by financial institutions, thereby increasing the availability of debt financing. o Effectiveness of projects in the tourism sector co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (Special Report No 6/2011) in terms of expected results, sustainability, European added value and project design.
The audit was based on a broad survey of projects in new Member States and 26 regions.
In the period 2000-2006, the ERDF allocated EUR 4.6 billion of EU funding to investment in tourism projects in kind, selected and managed by managing authorities in the Member States.
14 o The effectiveness of the eGovernment projects funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) (Special Report No 9/2011) with a focus on the 2000-2006 programming period and the four Member States, Spain, France, Italy and Poland.
The audit assessed whether the co-financed projects were selected on the basis of the identified needs, whether they were implemented as planned and whether they were appropriate and sustainable.
The ERDF's €6.7 billion funding for the information society should help develop new safe technologies, develop infrastructure and link regions with broadband. o Effectiveness of Commission management of State aid control (Special Report No 15/2011).
The examination examined whether the procedures and systems ensure that the Commission handles all relevant aid cases, the cases are handled effectively and within the time limits provided for, and that the Commission is able to monitor the effects of its State aid control.
It is the Commission's responsibility to ensure that State aid granted by Member States is compatible with the internal market of the European Union.
Member States must notify aid measures to the Commission and obtain approval from the Commission before granting State aid. o Implement EU financial support for decommissioning nuclear power plants in Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia (Special Report No 16/2011) to assess whether the measures of nuclear decommissioning programmes have been designed to meet the needs, whether they have been implemented as planned and whether the accountability and management structures have been designed to ensure the effective use of EU funds.
Bulgaria, Lithuania and Slovakia committed themselves to early shutdown and subsequent decommissioning of eight non-refitable nuclear reactors in the framework of their EU accession negotiations.
In view of the exceptional burden, the EU provided EUR 2.9 billion of financial assistance for the three country programmes for the period 1999-2013.
The EU has a high political responsibility in the fields of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 413.1 billion, i.e. 42.3% of the total budget.
Three quarters of the expenditure relates to direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) – the "first pillar" of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
More than one fifth of the expenditure is allocated to EU support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second "pillar of the CAP".
Agriculture and rural development are subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Single payment scheme under the common agricultural policy (Special Report No 5/2011) – See box: ‘Initiation of an economic impact assessment' o How good is the design and management of the agri-environmental measures supported? (Special Report No 7/2011).
This report assesses whether agri-environmental policy is designed and accompanied in such a way as to provide a tangible environmental benefit, whether farmers are adequately supported by appropriate guidance and properly set amounts of aid and whether specific environmental needs are taken into account in the management of agri-environmental policy.
The aim of agri-environmental policy is to meet the growing social demand for environmental services by encouraging farmers to introduce or maintain production processes compatible with the protection and improvement of the environment.
This area is subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States. o Recovery of unlawful payments under the common agricultural policy (Special Report No 8/2011) to assess the effectiveness of the recovery systems established and operated by Member States.
The audit examined whether Member States properly collect and process claims, whether Member States' recovery measures are successful, whether Member States are properly performing the derecognition of irrecoverable claims and whether the Commission's monitoring and supervision are effective.
The European Union spends some EUR 55 billion annually on agriculture and rural development, and some of the funds are wrongly paid out for illegal or incorrect applications. 15
16 o The effectiveness of the school milk and school fruit programmes (Special Report No 10/2011) to assess whether EU aid has a direct impact on the consumption of the beneficiaries and whether the programmes are suitable for developing the educational impact and affecting future eating habits.
These EU programmes are designed to encourage children to eat healthy food through the consumption of milk products and fruit and vegetables, and to contribute to improving the market conditions for these products.
The EU is currently providing an annual budget of EUR 180 million for these two programmes. o Allow the design and management of the geographical indications scheme to be effective? (Special Report No 11/2011).
The audit assessed the reliability of the control system, the attractiveness of the scheme for producers and its consumer awareness.
The objective of the EU geographical indication scheme is to protect the names of products which are linked to the geographical area from which they originate.
The scheme has economic potential for farmers and food producers and can have a positive impact on the rural economy in the EU regions. o Effectiveness of EU measures to adapt fishing fleets' fishing capacity to existing fishing opportunities (Special Report No 12/2011).
The audit examined whether there was a clear framework for fleet capacity reduction and whether the specific measures were well defined and implemented.
The investigation was carried out by the Commission and Denmark, Spain, France, Italy, Poland, Portugal and the United Kingdom.
The EU's common fisheries policy aims to promote sustainable fisheries by achieving a balance between fish stocks and the fleet in order to avoid overfishing.
For many years, the overcapacity of the fishing fleet has been a problem, endangering both the sustainability of fish stocks and the long-term viability of the fisheries sector.
The European Fisheries Fund will provide EUR 4.3 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period.
17 EXAMINATION OF ECONOMIC ASSESSMENT SPECIAL REPORT No 5/2011 OPERATING PREMIUM: QUESTIONS IN THE BETTER FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT This audit concerned the sound financial management of payments under the single payment scheme, which is currently being applied in 17 of the 27 EU Member States.
Expenditure related to this scheme amounted to around 28.8 billion euros in 2009.
The introduction of the single payment scheme was a key element of the 2003 reform of the EU's common agricultural policy.
The aim of this scheme was to encourage farmers to respond better to market demand and to provide income support.
The reform has dissolved the link between support and production ("decoupling").
Instead, farmers must have eligible agricultural land and ‘payment entitlements'.
From 2006 onwards, the Court carried out a series of audits of procedures established by the Commission and the Member States to ensure the accuracy of payment entitlements and the accuracy of payments to farmers.
These audits covered all 17 Member States applying the scheme, and the results of these audits were included in the 2006 and 2007 annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget.
The Court decided to carry out an economic audit based on these results, focusing on the following aspects: (i) beneficiaries of the scheme, access to single payment and the definition of eligible land; (ii) the contribution of the scheme to the objectives of income support for farmers and the preservation of agricultural land in good agricultural and environmental condition; (iii) the specific consequences of the application of the different models for implementing the scheme.
Verification visits were carried out at the Commission, France, Italy and the United Kingdom in 2009 and 2010.
The conclusion of the resulting Special Report No 5/2011 was that the single payment scheme contributed to the achievement of the two main objectives of the common agricultural policy: farmers were encouraged to respond better to market demand and the income of the agricultural sector as a whole was supported.
However, in general terms, the implementation of the scheme has resulted in several questionable features relating to the definition of beneficiaries of this policy, the nature of the eligible parcels and activities, the environmental impact of the scheme, the distribution of aid from Member State to Member State and within Member States and the specific effects of the historical and regional model.
18 The Court recommends in the report that it is better for the single payment to be made to farmers who are active and to exclude non-agricultural parcels and activities that do not contribute to the increase in agricultural productivity or to the active preservation of the ecological value of the land.
The Court also recommends that the level of the single payment be taken into account in the costs of environmental and other external effects and that a more balanced distribution of the aid among farmers be sought.
The calculation of the single payment should be based on the current management conditions.
The examination was carried out by a multidisciplinary team of eight examiners from Chamber I. The examination work provided not only further information on the concept of the decoupled single payment, but also on how the conversion process from the previous coupled support scheme affects the current scheme.
According to team leader Sven Kölling, the examination of the various models and variants existing under the single payment scheme for implementing the scheme together with the coexistence of national and regional administrative strategies and their impact on the profitability and effectiveness of the premium was a particular challenge.
Test visits to final beneficiaries and on-the-spot checks at the premises were found to be essential to obtain the verification evidence to support the findings and conclusions.
Many of the Court's recommendations were reflected in the Commission's proposals for reform of the common agricultural policy after 2013 (at the time of the preparation of this report in the discussion), including the definition of an ‘active farmer' and of minimum activities on certain areas, the distribution of premium payments among beneficiaries, the reduction of the number of implementation models for the single payment scheme and the better consideration of environmental external effects in the calculation of single payments.
Review team from left to right: (first row) Heike Walz, Court Member Michel Cretin, Aurelia Petliza, (second row) Pietro Puricella, Dirk Pauwels, Sven Kölling, Sylvain Lehnhard
EU AS GLOBALER PARTNER 19 The EU's external relations activities focus on: enlargement, the achievement of stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood, active support for sustainable development at international level, the promotion of global political governance and the safeguarding of strategic and civil security.
The EU has allocated EUR 55.9 billion, i.e. 5.7% of its planned total expenditure, to these objectives, for the period 2007-2013.
Expenditure is mainly managed directly by the Commission through its central services or delegations.
Some support measures are also managed together with international organisations.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Has the deconcentration of the management of external assistance from the Commission's central services to its delegations led to a better provision of assistance?
(Special Report No 1/2011).
The audit was concerned with the examination of administrative arrangements and their impact on a more rapid delivery and better quality of assistance and the creation of stable financial procedures.
The EU is the world's largest donor of development assistance, with a large part of this aid (EUR 8.4 billion in 2009) being managed by the Commission under its management system, which, from 2002, has been delegated powers to the Commission's external offices in partner countries. o Economic efficiency and effectiveness of EU contributions made through United Nations agencies in conflict-affected countries (Special Report No 3/2011) focusing on projects in Afghanistan, Iraq and Sudan for the period 2006-2008.
EuropeAid provided around 4 billion euros through UN organisations in the period 2005-2009.
The EU may provide funds as the only donor or together with other donors, as contributions to trust funds without providing the funds for certain activities or objectives, or as a contribution to the general budget of a UN organisation. o Effectiveness of EU assistance in improving Croatia's ability to manage post-accession funding (Special Report No 14/2011) to assess the Commission's planning of assistance and whether the intended results of projects financed by EU funds have been achieved.
The aim of EU pre-accession assistance is to assist candidate countries in building up their administrative capacity to prepare them for the management of the larger EU aid to which they will be entitled as Member States.
EU pre-accession assistance to Croatia has been worth EUR 150 million annually since 2007.
The budget of the European Union is primarily financed from own resources and other revenue.
Traditional own resources – mainly customs duties – represent around 12% of total revenue and VAT-based own resources represent an additional 12%.
The bulk of the EU's own resources (70%) comes from own resources derived from gross national income, which ensure that the budget is always balanced.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Management of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) (Special Report No 2/2011) to assess the measures taken to implement the recommendations of the previous Special Report No 1/2005 on the subject.
The starting point for the examination was the question whether OLAF has now shifted the focus of its activities to its investigative role and how it is more efficient in its investigations, how it demonstrates the effectiveness of its investigation work and whether the role of the Supervisory Committee has been clarified.
OLAF's role is to combat fraud and other illegal activities to the detriment of the EU budget.
The Office is affiliated to the Commission, but has full independence in carrying out its investigations and employs around 500 staff, with annual expenditure of around EUR 50 million.
In 2011, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: o Can VAT evasion be prevented and detected by customs control of customs procedure 42 (Special Report No 13/2011) In the course of this audit, the Court examined whether there is a sound legal framework for combating VAT evasion under customs procedure 42.
The tests were carried out in Belgium, Denmark, Spain, France, Austria, Slovenia and Sweden.
Customs procedure 42 is a mechanism used by an EU importer to obtain VAT exemption.
The procedure applies when goods imported from outside the EU into one Member State are transported to another Member State.
In such cases, VAT shall be due in the Member State of destination.
OPINIONS AND POSITION PAPERS PROVIDED FOR IN 2011 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management by delivering opinions on proposals for new or amended acts with financial implications.
These opinions will be delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and used by the legislative authorities – the European Parliament and the Council – in their work.
The Court may also issue position papers on other issues on its own initiative.
In 2011, the Court adopted seven opinions: o 1/2011: Proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 on the financial regulation applicable to the 10th European Development Fund as regards the European External Action Service o 2/2011: Financial Regulation of the Clean Sky Joint Undertaking o 3/2011: Proposal for a Council Regulation (Euratom) on the rules for the participation of undertakings, research centres and universities in indirect actions under the framework programme of the European Atomic Energy Community and for the dissemination of research results (2012-2013) o 6/2011: Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 on investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and repealing Regulation (Euratom) No 1074/1999.
The contribution from the EU budget to achieving the Europe 2020 objectives therefore depends to a large extent on the economical, efficient and effective use of these funds.
This will also affect the credibility and legitimacy of EU action.
The EU remains faced with the challenge of achieving good quality results by means of a system whereby the funds are allocated beforehand to the Member States and the use of these funds is an implicit objective.
The effective monitoring and accountability of the Commission would help Member States to use the funds successfully.
The opinions are available in full on the Court's website www.eca.europa.eu in all official EU languages. 21
22 HOFE'S POSITION PAPER: CONTENT OF THE EU'S CURRENT FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CRISIS FOR PUBLIC ACCIDENTS AND PUBLIC FINANCIAL CONTROLS AND THE ROLE OF THE HOFE'S ROLE The ongoing global financial and economic crisis had far-reaching consequences for the European Union.
To address the crisis, the EU took measures to ensure the long-term sustainability of the financial sector, to promote economic recovery and growth, to provide financial assistance to Member States and to strengthen financial and economic coordination between Member States.
These measures also have a decisive influence on how public funds, i.e. EU citizens' taxpayers' money, are used in the Union.
These changes to the Union's regulatory structure pose new challenges in terms of accountability, transparency and public financial control.
The Court considers that the implementation of these new measures should be based on the principle that appropriate arrangements for transparency, public accountability and public financial control should be provided whenever public resources are used.
The Court therefore adopted a position paper on 19 May 2011 on the impact of the current financial and economic crisis on public accountability and public financial control in the EU and on the role of the Court.
In this position paper, the Court concluded that it would include the new supervisory authorities, the support mechanisms with EU budget guarantees and, where possible, the Commission's activities under the European Semester in its audits.
The Court considers that the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism should provide for a form of external public financial control.
Finally, the Court notes that in a number of cases accountability and transparency issues need to be considered by the relevant EU institutions, in particular by the European Parliament and the Council.
COOPERATION WITH OTHER SAIs The Court works with other Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCBs) mainly in the following bodies: o Contact Committee of the SAIs of EU Member States; o Network of the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; o International organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
CONTACT COMMITTEE The Treaty of the European Union requires the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies to cooperate with confidence, while respecting their independence.
The Court is actively cooperating with the SAIs of the EU Member States within the Contact Committee.
The Contact Committee shall meet once a year with the Presidents of the EU-ORCB and the Court.
The Contact Committee shall provide a forum for cooperation and exchange of expertise and experience in the field of EU funding and other EU issues.
Working groups have been set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2011, the Court was acting Chairman of the Contact Committee, continued to provide administrative support to the Committee and actively participated in the various working groups and networks.
The annual meeting of the Contact Committee in 2011 took place on 13 and 14 October 2011 at the Court's premises.
The meeting focused on a seminar on the impact of the European Semester and other recent developments in EU economic governance on the EU's ORCB and the Court.
In this context, the Commission has addressed, inter alia, the regulation and monitoring of financial systems and financial institutions, state aid to the financial sector and the review of the mechanisms to deal with the euro crisis.
The Contact Committee adopted a declaration addressed to the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission, as well as to the parliaments and governments of the EU Member States.
The Contact Committee also adopted a resolution to take account of the reputation of the SAIs of euro area countries for adequate external financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
Declaration and resolution are available on the Contact Committee website (www.contactcommitte.eu).
23 Key speakers at the 2011 Contact Committee meeting: Commissioner Olli Rehn, Luxembourg's Finance Minister Luc Frieden and ECB Vice-President Vítor Constâncio, together with Court of Auditors President Vítor Caldeira (third from the left).
24 DECLARATION ON THE IMPACT OF THE EUROPEAN SEMESTER AND OTHER JUNE DECLARATIONS IN THE EU ECONOMIC TAXATION TO THE BIRTH ACCOUNTS OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS. IN THIS DECLARATION DECLARED BY THE CONTACT COMMITTEE ON 14 OCTOBER 2011 THE PRINCIPLES OF ORIGIN TO BE REFERRED TO IN THE SINGLE PUBLIC APPROACH AND THE PRINCIPLES OF FUTURE COOPERATION SHALL BE DEFINED IN THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE CONTRIBUTION OF THE PUBLIC APPROACHES AND THE PRINCIPALITIES OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE FUNCTIONAL COOPERATION ON 14 OCTOBER 2011 The Contact Committee is convinced that whenever public resources are used, the following principles should be respected: o "sufficient transparency in the form of reliable and timely information (including national statistics) on the ongoing or planned use of public resources and the risks; o reasonable accountability, whereby the decision makers and the responsible for the use of the financial control and the responsibility for the purposes of the management are made to be made to contribute to transparency;
In order to respond effectively to the economic and financial crisis and its consequences in the field of public financial control, the EU and Court of Auditors will consider, as far as possible and within their respective mandates, how to adapt their audit work to the new framework.
In some cases, this process has already begun by introducing new and updated audit tasks.
25 Further development of cooperation between the EU SAIs and the Court The growing interdependence of economic systems in the EU makes the value of a common approach that can be gained through close cooperation within the Contact Committee.
This includes: o "joint learning from recent audit results and their impact as a way of collecting and exchanging knowledge; o identifying and disseminating current best practices in examining new (and existing) rules; o identifying gaps in public financial control and possible new audit tasks, as well as new partnerships and consideration of how best to proceed in this context; o considering the development of specific audit methods and techniques for SAIs and tools and guidance for their application.
Contact Committee meeting in Luxembourg on 13 and 14 October 2011
26 NETWORK OF THE SAI OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE NETWORK The Court actively participated in the activities of the network of the SAI of the Candidate Countries and of the potential candidate countries1.
The network's organisational structure is comparable to that of the Contact Committee and includes regular meetings of the SAI and Liaison Officers presidents, working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel audits.
The main objective is to promote the use of audit methods and procedures that are consistent with international standards and best EU procedures.
A meeting of the network presidents took place in Istanbul on 8 and 9 March 2011.
The Turkish Court of Auditors and the European Court of Auditors held the joint chair at this meeting, which led to the adoption of the Istanbul Agreement, including a work programme for future activities to be implemented with active support from the European Court of Auditors, SIGMA and representatives of the EU ORCB.
OTHER COOPERATION FORMS In 2011, the European Court of Auditors, with the participation of the SAIs of Austria and Finland, carried out a peer review of the Norwegian Court of Auditors.
The report was published in June 2011.
The Court continued its active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI.
Since 2004, when the Court became a full member of INTOSAI, he has been actively involved in the subcommittees on the technical standards for the various types of examination.
In the course of 2011, these subcommittees began to implement their new work plans, following the confirmation of a comprehensive International Standards (ISSAI) package by the XX INCOSAI Congress in November 2010, focusing on harmonising the ISSAI framework and the dissemination of standards and guidelines.
In addition, the Court contributed to the Subcommittee "Promoting best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews" and the Subcommittee "Intensified support for measures to enhance the expertise of INTOSAI members" and the INTOSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment.
The Court has also chaired the INTOSAI Working Group on Accountability and the Audit of Disaster Relief since 2008.
An important objective of this working group is to develop guidelines on disaster response accountability, identify and disseminate best practices, focusing on activities directed to stakeholders (multilateral bodies, relief organisations, governments, private auditors).
1 In February 2012, the network included five candidate countries (Croatia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro and Turkey) and three potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia).
With regard to EUROSAI, the Court is now more involved as it will become a member of the Bureau for the next six years.
The Court actively participated in the VIII EUROSAI Congress (30 May to 2 June 2011), which focused on the challenges, requirements and responsibilities of public administrations and the role of SAIs and the SAIs' audit of independent regulatory agencies.
A declaration was adopted to strengthen the independence of SAIs.
In December 2011, the joint efforts of the INTOSAI community and its regional working groups to strengthen the independence of the SAIs and to recognise the declarations of Lima and Mexico culminated with the adoption of the resolution "Promoting an efficient, accountable, effective and transparent public administration through strengthening the Supreme Audit Authorities" by the United Nations General Assembly. 27
28 OTHER ACTIVITIES POWER OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS IN THE CONSUMENCE OF THE TEST OF VAT OWN RESOURCES On 15 November 2011, the Court of Justice delivered its judgment in Case C-539/09 Commission v Federal Republic of Germany on the audit powers of the European Court of Auditors in the field of own resources derived from VAT (VAT).
The case was based on the refusal by the German Federal Ministry of Finance in 2006 to allow the European Court of Auditors to carry out audits of administrative cooperation between Member States in the field of VAT in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 in Germany.
In preparing its Special Report No 8/2007, the Court decided to carry out audits in eight Member States, including Germany.
The German authorities objected to the Court's right to carry out the examination in question.
The German Government argued that the cooperation between the administrative authorities of the Member States, as provided for in Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003, was not directly linked to the EU's revenue, since VAT was to be distinguished from the VAT own resources.
The latter are determined on the basis of a series of calculations and represent a relatively small proportion of the amounts collected by Member States as VAT.
The Court rejected the argument of the German Government, which was based on a strict distinction between the VAT revenues of the Member States and the Union's own resources.
In view of the arguments put forward by the Commission, the European Parliament and the European Court of Auditors, the Court of Justice stressed the dependence of VAT own resources on VAT revenue from Member States.
The Court confirmed that the scope of Regulation (EC) No 1798/2003 on administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax covered the definition of cooperation mechanisms between Member States which would enable them to combat VAT evasion more effectively and to levy VAT more effectively.
This also affects the availability of VAT own resources for the EU budget.
Where cooperation between national authorities is carried out effectively and in accordance with the Regulation, it may contribute to reducing fraud and effectively collecting VAT in the Member States, and to keeping the VAT own resources at the level required by the various relevant EU legislation, thereby maintaining the overall balance of own resources.
The Court concluded that the Court of Auditors had the power to carry out the planned audit in connection with administrative cooperation in the field of VAT, since it related to the revenue of the EU from the point of view of its legality and sound financial management and was therefore directly related to the powers conferred on the Court by the Treaty.
In Case C-539/09, the Court of Justice had to give an explicit ruling on the scope of the Court's powers of scrutiny for the first time.
The Court's judgment is valuable and encouraging because it clarifies and underpins the institution's powers of examination vis-à-vis the Member States.
The LÁZARO Prize for SCIENTIFIC WORK IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR 2010 awarded the Court for the first time the Prize for Scientific Work in the Public Sector Audit with the aim of establishing contacts with universities and promoting the development of public financial control in Europe.
This first award was in the memory of Jesús Lázaro Cuenca, a former director of the Court who had contributed to the development of the examination methods and approaches of the institution for many years.
The awards were presented to the Lázaro winners Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo by the President of the Court of Auditors Vítor Caldeira and the Selection Committee in a public ceremony held at the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg on 5 July 2011.
Both winners presented their scientific contributions at an academic meeting: Ms Sara Belleil: "Contribution à une sociologie des pratiques managériales dans les politiques européennes. L-exemple des audit des ONG humanitaires: entre importation et appropriation".
Mr José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo: "The control of public administration and the fight against corruption: Special reference to the Court of Audit and General audit of the state administration.
29 The European Court of Auditors was deeply concerned by the news of the premature death of Sara Belleil on 30 November 2011 and wishes to pay tribute to the quality and importance of her work. President Caldeira with the Lázaro winners Sara Belleil and José Antonio Fernández Ajenjo
31 OUR MANAGEMENT IMPLEMENTATION OF STRATEGY FOR 2009-2012 In recent years, the Court has initiated an internal reform process.
This included the development of its first strategy for the period 2009-20122, with the following overarching objectives: o maximising the overall impact of the audits; o improving efficiency by making the best use of resources.
Many of the priority actions foreseen in the strategy have already been completed, and the remaining actions will be completed in 2012 in 2 The "Examination Strategy 2009-2012" is being addressed at www.eca.europa.eu. The main achievements achieved in 2011 are: o an increase in the number of special reports; in the period 2009-2011 an average of 16 special reports were published per year, exceeding the target of 12-15 reports per year; o important contributions to the reform of the EU budget; o the initiation of regular follow-up reports on previous findings, including an overall follow-up report to be prepared for the first time in 2012; o revised audit strategies and audit directives; o increasing emphasis on core activities by transferring staff from support services to the audit service; o the publication of a position paper on the consequences of the current financial and economic crisis on public accountability and public financial control within the EU and on the role of the Court.
ETHIC GUIDELINES FOR THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS Following the recommendation of the peer review conducted by an international panel of experts in 2008, the Court strengthened the framework conditions for its audit management by adopting ethical guidelines based on the INTOSAI's obligations and code of conduct and the International Standards for Quality Control within the SAIs3.
In this context, the Court has established a procedure to provide sufficient assurance on an annual basis that its auditors comply with the relevant ethical requirements.
Respect for the values set out in the ethical guidelines, such as impartiality, objectivity, loyalty and professional secrecy, ensures that the Court's employees act in the public interest, unimpeded by external pressure and unaffected by personal or financial interests.
The Court's professional behaviour framework promotes the credibility of the information submitted to its addressees.
3 ISSAI 30 and ISSAI 40.
32 WAY TO A NEW STRATEGY OF THE HOF FOR THE PERIOD 2013-2017 In 2011, the next strategy was launched, based on the achievements of the current strategy that ended in 2012.
The Court takes the opportunity to adapt to developments in the EU and audit and to take account of the needs and expectations of its audience.
Members of the European Court of Auditors
MEASUREMENT DATA ON THE HOF'S PROPERTY IN 2011 33 Since 2008, the Court has gradually developed a set of key performance indicators (CPIs) to inform o management of progress made in implementing the 2009-2012 targets; o support the decision-making process; o provide performance-related information to the audience.
The indicators are used to measure core parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, taking into account the position of key stakeholders and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources.
2011 is the second year in which all indicators were available.
The Court continues to consider the results of its key performance indicators as encouraging, in particular in terms of quality and impact of its audit work.
The indicators also clearly show the areas where progress is needed and the problems to be addressed in order to achieve a future performance increase.
2010 2011 4.2 4.0 ≥ 4.2 3.7 3.7 ≥ 3.7 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's reports by the main addressees Target for 2011 Assessment of the quality and impact of the Court's audit activities by the audited bodies The result shows that the main addressees of the Court's reports are on average "good".
In particular, the clarity and usefulness of the reports and the professionalism of the Court's auditors are appreciated.
34 EXPERTS' REVIEWS Two external bodies have reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of Court reports published in 2011.
The auditors evaluated four special reports and the 2010 annual reports on the general budget and EDFs.
They assessed the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "highly valuable" (4).
2010 2011 3.0 2.8 ≥ 3.0 Target for 2011 Audits of Court reports and presentations by external experts The result shows that the auditors consider the quality of Court reports to be "satisfactory".
The reviews have provided valuable insights and the resulting recommendations are used to improve the quality of future reports.
CONTINUING RECOMMENDATIONS The Court's recommendations help to improve financial management.
The indicator is based on the recommendations in the annual and special reports published in 2011.
2010 2011 90 % 93 % ≥ 90 % target for 2011 Percentage of audit recommendations accepted by the audited body In 2011, the Court began to systematically monitor the implementation of the recommendations by audited bodies.
From 2012 onwards, the Court can report on the implementation of the recommendations and their impact on the improvement.
EFFICIENCY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF RESOURCES The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its resource use according to its ability to present reports and audit findings on time, to fulfil its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff.
POWER OF REPORTS The Court is committed to adopting all audit reports within the specified time limits.
The annual reports and special annual reports shall be subject to compliance with the dates laid down in the legislation.
In the case of special reports where there is no publication date laid down in legislation, the planned date of acceptance shall be considered as the timeliness benchmark.
35 4 2010 90% Number of reports adopted on time 80% 2011 83% 90% 75% 90% Overall, the Court did not fully meet its targets in 2011.
The very high target for the number of reports was not met, but the overall target of 12-15 special reports per year was exceeded, and output was higher than 2010.
All annual reports and, with the exception of all special annual reports, were adopted as planned and published on time.
4 The targets for these indicators have been modified from 100% (2008-2010) to 90% to take account of unexpected events.
POWER OF AUDIT DESTINATIONS Audit notices shall contain details of the specific audit findings and shall be drawn up after verification visits to Member States or to the Commission.
The Court uses them to confirm the factual accuracy of its findings by the audited bodies. Thus, audit reports constitute an important stage in the audit process.
The Court has previously established that there is a need for significant improvement in the preparation of audit communications in terms of punctuality.The target to be achieved by the end of 2012 is: to produce 80% of audit communications within two months of the audit visit.
2010 2011 Percentage of audit notifications prepared on time 54% 58% target for 20114 Number of reports adopted compared to the number of reports planned 80% target for 2011 to 2012 The Court improved the punctuality of audit notifications in 2011, but the target has not yet been reached.
Significant progress has been made over the past three years (only 27% of audit communications were prepared on time in 2008) and the Court will continue to seek to improve its performance.
36 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court seeks to obtain a full audit opinion on the annual accounts and resources used by its independent auditor and discharge from the European Parliament following a favourable Council recommendation.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training (without language courses).
GRAD TO PERSONAL PEACE In an internal employee satisfaction survey conducted in 2009, 86% of the Court's employees were generally satisfied with their work, with a total of 2.8 employees satisfaction on a scale of 1 to 4. Each figure above 2.5 suggests general satisfaction.
The Court is committed to keeping or improving this result when a similar survey is conducted in 2012.
SUPPORT FOR AUDIT ACTIVITIES The success of the Court's audit activities depends to a large extent on the quality of the support provided by its specialised departments.
These services provide the logistical and technical know-how that enables the Court to o recruit, maintain and motivate its staff and develop their professional skills; o disseminate the results of the examinations in all the official languages of the EU; o make the best use of information technology; o manage its budget and maintain its infrastructure; o carry out audit visits to obtain evidence on the spot in the countries where EU funds are collected and spent.
37 PERSONAL PERSONAL ACCESS The Court's most important capital is its employees.
At 31 December 2010, the staff of the Court amounted to 887 staff (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 564 are in audit chambers (including 123 members' cabinets), 148 in the Translation Directorate, 148 in administrative support services and 27 in the President's services.
In 2011, with a view to achieving the best possible use of resources, all services once again explored and implemented ways of improving efficiency through simplification of procedures.
Where possible, the audit department has moved posts released from the audit area through efficiency gains, which has contributed more than half to the 12.6% increase in audit area posts since 2008.
Distribution of the Court's posts on 31 December 2008 2009 2010 2011 Audit 501 525 557 564 Translation 163 163 151 148 Administration 173 171 157 148 Presidential services 20 21 24 27 Total 857 880 889 887
38 TERMINATIONS The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and staff are both civil servants and temporary staff.
General selection procedures for Court posts are organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The Court also advocates a limited share of men and women, like the other EU institutions, in the context of its human resources policy and recruitment, a policy of equal opportunities.
After a continuous increase in the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now reached a balanced proportion of men and women among its employees.
In 2011, the Court hired 75 employees: 23 officials, 24 temporary staff and 28 contract staff.
The Court was particularly successful in recruiting new staff to examiners.
On 31 December 2011, 25 vacancies were vacant – much less than in 2010 (44).
This meant that the vacancy rate fell below 3% for the first time.
2001 2011 Men 54% 50% Women 46% 50% The following graph shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2011.
Of the 65 directors and heads of units, 18 (28%) are women, which is the same as in recent years.
Most of them are, however, in the Directorate for Translation and Administration.
According to the latest recruitment waves, 45% of employees in grades AD5 to AD8 are women.
ALTERSPROFILE The age profile of the staff in active employment on 31 December 2010 shows that 60% of the staff of the Court are 44 years old or younger.
Age 20-24 0.0 % 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 23 of the 65 directors and heads of unit are 55 years of age or older.
As a result, there will be a major renewal in senior management positions over the next five to ten years.
39 3.8% 16.3% 20.7% 19.2% 17.5% 11.5% 7.6% 3.4% VOCATIONAL TRAINING The profession of the examiner requires continuous training to keep pace with new developments and acquire new skills.
In 2011, the Court's employees completed an average of 9.3 days of professional training.
Language courses accounted for 54% of the total number of training days (compared to 57% in 2010).
In addition to language courses, the examiners completed 6.1 days of professional training in 2011 and thus met an important target of the institution.
In 2011, improvements in the content of training were made and new courses were developed to meet the audit priorities.
The Court also streamlined the administrative system for training.
TRANSLATION Translation is an important activity of audit support that enables the Court to fulfil its mission and to achieve its communication objectives.
In 2011, the volume of translation was comparable to the volume of work in 2010.
Over 99% of the translation services were provided on time.
In 2011, additional posts and staff from the Translation Directorate were transferred to the audit service.
The Court's Translation Directorate also provided valuable linguistic support to auditors on mission and in subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
The Directorate for Translation also supported the Contact Committee, INTOSAI working groups and met other specific needs related to the audit activities of the Court.
In addition, the Directorate for Translation of the Court was actively involved in interinstitutional and international specialised bodies.
40 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Information technology (IT) plays a key role in implementing the overall objectives of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy.
In 2011, the Court took the following measures: o to strengthen its investment in knowledge management by launching a new version of the Prüfungssupportinstrument (project called ‘Assyst2') on the basis of the recently established cooperation platform; o to actively pursue its efforts to streamline internal processes through electronic work processes in areas such as the management of missions and training activities; and electronic archiving of staff files to continuously increase efficiency and effectiveness; o to continue supporting mobility through the use of smartphones and laptop computers; and to launch an extranet project, which will also play a central role in simplifying electronic exchange with a large number of Court partners (including audited bodies, budgetary authorities, newly recruited staff, suppliers).
These developments were carried out while enhancing operational security and emergency arrangements to ensure the necessary availability and quality of all the Court's IT services.
MANAGEMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE The Directorate for Finance and Support Services is responsible for providing the Court's auditors with efficient, effective and timely support and ensuring that the necessary financial, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all the Court's activities.
In 2011, the Directorate continued its efforts to further improve efficiency and effectiveness in order to release resources for relocation to the audit service.
In 2011, following an agreement reached with the budgetary authority (Parliament and Council) on the financing of the K3 building, the focus was on the construction of the second extension building to the main building of the Court.
Construction work was completed in 2011 and the shell construction was weatherproof at the end of the year.
Great progress has been made in interior design.
The time and budget framework of the construction project is respected.
The yard is expected to take possession of the building at the end of 2012, and the relocations are scheduled to take place in the first quarter of 2013.
Analysis carried out in 2009 and 2010 led the Court to conclude that its safety objectives could be best achieved and that the most efficient and cost-effective management of risks could be achieved if the reception and security services were provided internally.
This was achieved in April 2011 by replacing the external security service contractor with a small team of contract staff.
The annual costs will be more than 0.5 million euros lower in 2012 than in 2009.
TESTS In the course of the Court's audit work, auditors must travel to Member States and other recipients of EU funds as well as to the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations.
The purpose of these verification visits is to obtain direct proof of examination.
The visits are usually carried out by central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and payment of EU funds, as well as by the final beneficiaries.
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Authorities of the Member State visited.
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors and the duration of an audit trip may be up to two weeks depending on the type of audit and the distance.
AVERAGE IN 2011 34 33 32 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 In 2011, the Court carried out a total of 379 audit visits5 – 343 to Member States and 36 outside the EU – in connection with audits of annual reports and special annual reports and selected audit tasks.
A similar number of audit visits were made to the EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg.
5 This corresponds to the number of Member States and beneficiary countries which have been audited in relation to each audit task.
In 2010, the corresponding figure was 376.
30 41 25 19 19 17 Verification visits within the EU 15 Total 343 12 12 11 11 Ex-EU 10 10 verification visits Total 36 99 555 44322 3222111111111111111 Spain United Kingdom Germany Italy France Belgium Poland Portugal Greece Czech Republic Netherlands Austria Hungary Finland Ireland Romania Denmark Sweden Latvia Slovenia Luxembourg Slovakia Bulgaria Cyprus Malta Switzerland Serbia Burkina Faso Israel Malawi Tanzania Albania Barbados Benin Cameroon Chad Congo Croatia East Timor Georgia Guyana Kazakhstan Mozambique Nicaragua Nigeria Norway Philippines Senegal Tunisia Vietnam Zambia
FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Court is financed by the EU's general budget.
Its budget accounts for around 0.1% of total EU expenditure and less than 2% of total administrative expenditure.
446 Total appropriations in % (commitments/deductible appropriations) Payments (EUR 1 000) Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions Title 1 Total Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 12 817 87 382 3 820 2 827 1 530 108 376 5 913 4 702 691 265 570 733 12 874 121 250 13 411 95 416 4 205 3 652 2 485 119 169 12 952 87 624 3 864 3 417 2 115 972 97% 92% 92% 94% 82% 92% 92% 91% 84% 84% 94% 94% 93% 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution 20 – Building 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212, 216 – Furniture and services 23 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24 24
44 In 2011, the overall budget implementation rate was 93 %.
For Title 1, this rate is 92%, the lowest in Chapter 16 (Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution) (85%).
For Title 2, the average execution rate is 97%.
The amount of payments charged to Chapter 20 (buildings) depends on the work on the construction of the K3 building.
The third tranche of EUR 7 million for this project was entered in the 2011 budget, which was committed and partially paid out in 2011.
The remaining amount of the funds for the K3 building was transferred to 2012 and is intended to finance the contracts awarded by the project manager on behalf of the Court to construction companies.
The appropriations will be used in the manner set out in the Court's 2008 request to the European Parliament and the Council.
The construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of 79 million euros, which will be financed in five consecutive years: 55 million euros in 2009; 11 million euros in 2010; 7 million euros in 2011 and 3 million euros in 2012 and 2013.
2012 BUDGET The 2012 budget budget was reduced by 1.28 % compared to 2011, mainly due to the reduction in the budget allocated to the K3 building.
Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution Title 1 — Total Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 14 592 96 487 4 173 3 802 2 682 121 736 9 9941 6 501 837 525 793 2 144 20 741 142 477 12 930 95 957 3 825 3 652 2 485 118 849 14 611 6 500 816 422 893 2 240 25 482 144 331 45 HOUSEHOLD 2012 2011 (1 000 Euro) 20 – Building 210 – Computer and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 23 – Current operating expenses 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications Total of the Court of Auditors Title 2 — Total of the institution 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 161, 163, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution Title 1 — Total Title 1 – Title 2: Buildings 2: Building, furniture, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous and miscellaneous and miscellaneous expenditure 14 5 — Miscellaneous expenditure 14 5 — Miscellaneous — Expenditure 14 5 — Expenditure 14 5 — Expenditure 14 5 — Expenditure 14 5 — Expenditure 14 5 — Expenditure 14 5 — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total — Total —
46 AUDIT AND ACCOUNTS INTERNAL AUDIT The role of the Internal Audit Service is to provide independent and objective assurance and advisory services designed to enhance and enhance the value of the Court's activities.
It supports the Court in achieving the institution's objectives by applying a systematic and rigorous approach to the evaluation and presentation of recommendations to improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes.
In carrying out its task, the Internal Audit Service shall act in accordance with the EU Financial Regulation, the legislation applicable to EU officials and the International Standards for Professional Practice of Internal Audit.
In 2009, the Internal Audit Service was audited and certified in accordance with the internationally recognised standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE HOFES The annual accounts of the European Court of Auditors are audited by an independent auditor.
This is a key element of the Court's efforts to ensure that it applies the same transparency and accountability principles to itself as to the bodies it examines.
In 2011, the Court's Internal Audit Service presented reports on the following issues: state of implementation of the Court's 2009-2012 strategy; implementation of key performance indicators; establishment of the new Court's K3 building; use of the trust account for payments to eligible beneficiaries; follow-up to previous recommendations.
The Internal Audit Service assisted the Court's independent auditor in all aspects in its audit with regard to the certification of the Court's annual accounts and the effectiveness of its internal control procedures.
The Court's Internal Audit Committee shall advise on internal audit matters and monitor the internal control environment associated with it in the context of the institution's risk management procedures.
In 2011, the Internal Audit Committee and the Internal Auditor analysed the results of the internal audit work carried out by the Internal Audit Service, the implementation of the action plans with an impact on the internal control environment and the risks to the governance of the institution.
The auditor's audit report – PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL – on the Court of Auditors' annual accounts for the financial year 2010 was published in September 20116.
47 AUDIT CASES OF THE INDEPENDENT FINAL AUDIT AVERAGE 
48 DECLARATION OF THE REFERRED TO IN THE DECLARATION I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable certainty that the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes envisaged and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts and for the appropriate handling of fraud or suspected fraud.
This sufficient security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and on the information available to him, such as the results of ex post controls, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years.
Luxembourg, 8 March 2012 Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary-General
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS' GUIDESTRUCTURE The European Court of Auditors is the independent external audit body of the European Union, based in Luxembourg.
The Court of Auditors acts as a collegial body of 27 members, each with one member per Member State.
Its members shall be appointed by the Council for a six-year term after consulting the European Parliament.
Members shall elect a President from among their number for three years, with the possibility of re-election.
The Court is organised by chambers to which the members are assigned.
The chambers prepare reports and opinions for adoption by the Court.
The examination chambers I to IV cover various revenue and expenditure areas, while the fifth, the CEAD chamber, is responsible for horizontal matters.
The chambers are supported by examination directions.
Since the Court's amendment of its Rules of Procedure in 2010, certain categories of reports and opinions of the Court of Chambers may be adopted instead of by the entire College of the Court.
The Management Committee shall meet under the chairmanship of the President and shall be composed of the Doyens of the Chambers and the Secretary-General (responsible for the Court's administrative and support services).
The Committee shall have a coordinating role and prepare decisions of the Court on strategic planning and performance management and administrative matters.
Each member is responsible for specific tasks, primarily in the audit area.
Members shall submit proposals for examination and reports on the tasks for which they are responsible to the relevant Chamber and the Court.
After the adoption of a report, the report will be presented by the rapporteur to the European Parliament, the Council and other relevant stakeholders.
The members are supported by their cabinet staff and the audit team appointed for the audit task. 49
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2011 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2012 – 49 pp. – 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9 doi:10.2865/64693
Where do I get EU publications? Free publications: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at the European Union's representations and delegations.
QJ-AA-12-001-EN-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu www.eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorsECA ISBN 978-92-9237-508-9
ISSN 1684-0666 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2012 ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT EN
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2013 ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 © European Union, 2013 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
European Court of Auditors ANNUAL ACTIVITY REPORT 2012
3 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS PROCUREMENT GUIDE TABLE VALUES The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, it contributes to improving EU financial management, promotes accountability and transparency and acts as independent guardian of the financial interests of the Union's citizens.
INDEPENDENT, INTEGRATION AND INTEGRATION PROFESSIONALITY VALUE EXCELLENCE AND EFFICIENCY Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its staff.
Maintaining a high and exemplary degree of professionalism in all aspects of his work.
Active participation in the further development of public financial control at EU and worldwide level.
The preparation of relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, taking into account the concerns of its addressees and containing important and indicative statements.
To contribute to an effective improvement in the management of the EU budget and to strengthening accountability for the management of EU funds.
Promote team spirit through effective communication.
5 CONTENTS Page 6 PRESENTATION OF THE PRESIDENT 8 2012 AT A BETWEEN 9 OUR ACTIVITIES 9 AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS 30 COOPERATION WITH OTHER BIRTH COLLECTION AUTHORITIES 34 OUR MANAGEMENT 35 EXCHANGE IN THE COURT'S COLLEGIUM 36 MEASUREMENT DATA FOR THE PROVIDED OF THE COURT 44 SUPPORTING THE AUDIT ACTIVITIES 49 FINANCIAL INFORMATION 52 AUDIT AND ACCOUNTS 53 DECLARATION OF THE REFERENCE REFERRED TO IN THE EUROPEAN COURT'S PROVIDED FOR 54 35 YEARS IN THE SERVICE OF A BETTER FUNCTIONING OF THE EU 6 PRESENTIONS OF THE PRESIDENT Welcome to the reading of the Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors 2012!
In 2012, an important work focus of the Court was to prepare the Union for the key challenges in financial management after 2013.
At the beginning of the year, the Court adopted its opinion on some proposals for regulations relating to the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), which is probably the most well-known EU policy.
The draft regulation was part of the package of legislative proposals related to the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020.
With a number of opinions and reports published in 2012, the Court actively contributed to strengthening the new arrangements to which EU revenue and expenditure will be subject during this period.
In 2012, the Court continued to monitor closely the impact of developments in EU economic governance on public accountability and financial control.
This year the Treaty establishing the European Stability Mechanism entered into force and the Audit Committee of this new body, which also includes a representative of the Court, met for its first meeting.
In December 2012, the Council of the European Union adopted its position on the establishment of a single supervisory mechanism to ensure supervision of euro area credit institutions and the Court announced its position on public accountability and financial control to EU policy-makers.
Many changes in economic governance and the EU budget result from the need to achieve better political results with lower public resources while strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability.
The Court is well positioned to help the EU meet these challenges, given its unique powers and perspective, on the one hand, and the audit experience gained over the course of its 35 years of history and the partnerships it has built up.
Based on the success of the past years, the Court's objective is to maximise the Court's contribution to improving the EU's accountability in the period 2013-2017.
The court is currently celebrating its 35th anniversary.
Europe has changed fundamentally since the Court began its work in 1977.
The structure of the Court and the way it performs its tests reflect these changes.
The Court's audit area has expanded with the accession of new Member States, the transfer of competences to the Union and the establishment of numerous EU-level bodies.
The Court has also grown as an organ, from nine members and 120 employees in 1977 to 27 members and nearly 900 employees in 2012.
This growth enabled the farm to build a professional, committed and experienced staff.
2012 was the last year to be covered by the Court's 2009-2012 strategy.
The Court has shown encouraging results over the course of this period.
As this Annual Activity Report shows, output has been increased, external experts have considered the quality of our reports to be good, and the main institutional users find it useful.
The level of acceptance of the Court's recommendations by the Commission is consistently high and the Court's new follow-up report highlights the positive impact of the recommendations.
The Court can also show efficiency gains in the area of administration and translation, which led to the possibility of 40 additional staff being employed in the audit area at the end of the period.
To achieve the targets for 2013-2017, the Court will prioritise products to improve EU accountability and enhance and expand its partnerships, professionalism and efficiency.
In 2013, an international peer review team will examine the Court's practice of auditing the audit and follow up on the results of the previous peer review process in 2008.
Other key actions launched in 2013 include streamlining the Court's reporting procedures and making even better use of our shared knowledge, expertise and expertise.
With these and other initiatives, the Court intends to support the EU in the coming years in addressing its growing challenges in the field of public accountability and financial control.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President 7
8 2012 AT A LIGHT OF OUR ACTIVITIES o Annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds for the financial year 2011, improving clarity and information. o 50 special annual reports on the various agencies, decentralised bodies and other bodies of the EU for the financial year 2011. o 25 special reports on certain budgetary areas or management issues. o 9 opinions on contributions to budgetary reform, such as the reform of the common agricultural policy and a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against fraud directed against the financial interests of the European Union.
OUR MANAGEMENT o Adoption of a new strategy for 2013-2017, which will guide the Court's activities during this period, with the aim of maximising the value of the Court's contribution to the EU's public accountability. o Our key performance indicators for the period 2008-2012 show an improved performance; for the first time they measure the proportion of our recommendations that has been implemented. o The further development of personnel policy and the continuation of the transfer of posts to the audit service through efficiency gains in the administrative and translation fields have increased the Court's ability to meet its mission. o Construction work on the K3 building – the second extension of the Court's building – has been completed so that all the Court's staff can be accommodated at one location.
9 OUR ACTIVITIES AUDIT REPORTS AND OPINIONS The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: o Annual reports – with the results of its audits of the accounts and compliance audits of the European Union budget and the European Development Funds (EDF); in addition, special annual reports on the agencies, decentralised bodies and other EU bodies are published separately; o Special reports – which can be published at any time during the year, with the results of its selected audits on specific budgetary or management areas; these are mainly economic audits; o Opinions on draft legislative acts affecting financial management and statements and position papers on other issues at the Court's own initiative.
Since 2008, the number of Court's special annual reports and reports has increased considerably.
The annual reports have also been further developed: more analytical information is now available, the presentation of data has been more harmonised to facilitate comparison between areas and over time, and a new chapter on performance-related issues has been added.
The significant increase in the opinions issued is due to the fact that the Court has been consulted on the large legislative proposals relating to the new financial framework (2014-2020).
Number of reports and opinions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised bodies 29 37 40 42 50 Special reports 12 18 14 16 25 Opinions and other statements 5 1 6 8 10 TOTAL 48 58 62 68 87 The full version of each report and opinion is available on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in 22 EU official languages.
10 TESTS IN 2012 While the vast majority of audit work is carried out on the Court's premises in Luxembourg, the auditors also make visits to EU institutions, agencies and decentralised bodies, to Member State authorities and to other recipients of EU funds (including the headquarters of international organisations such as the United Nations in Switzerland).
The audit visits are usually carried out by central and local authorities involved in the authorisation, management and disbursement of EU funds, as well as by the final beneficiaries.
Within the EU, audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Authorities of the Member States visited.
The audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors and the duration of an audit trip may be up to two weeks, depending on the type of audit and the distance.
In 2012, the Court's auditors spent 6 816 days on-the-spot audits – 6 054 in Member States and 762 outside the EU – and obtained audit evidence for the annual reports, the special annual reports and the selected audit tasks.
They spent a similar amount of time at the EU institutions and bodies in Brussels and Luxembourg.
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 spot audit days 2012 00 Spain France United Kingdom Poland Italy Germany Greece Romania Portugal Netherlands Czech Repulik Hungary Lithuania Luxembourg Denmark Austria Sweden Slovenia Bulgaria Latvia Finland Ireland Belgium Estonia Slovakia Malta Cyprus Uzbekistan Russia USA Norway Morocco Namibia Ukraine Guatemala Turkey Kyrgyzstan Switzerland Kosovo Senegal Ethiopia Cameroon Serbia Indonesia Egypt Zambia Israel Congo
11 The key statements of the 2011 Annual Report o The financial statements for the 2011 financial year are the financial situation of the European Union and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year concerned.
Revenue and commitments were not significantly affected by errors.
However, payments were substantially affected by errors, with the estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole being 3.9%.
This error rate is comparable to that of 2010, which was 3.7%. o All EU expenditure areas assessed individually are largely affected by errors, except for external relations, external assistance and enlargement and administrative expenditure.
This shows that improvements are still needed in the management of EU funds. o The Court's estimate of error rate in rural, environmental, fisheries and health expenditure (the most error-prone area of expenditure) was 7.7%.
The estimated error rate for regional policy, energy and transport remained high at 6.0%. o The Commission's reservations have increased, with the amount considered risky by the Commission's Directors-General increased from EUR 0.4 billion in 2010 to EUR 2.0 billion in 2011.
This is based on the fact that the Commission has recognised the existence of a high risk of error in certain areas, in particular rural development, cohesion and research. o Overall, the control systems examined are only partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payments and do not ensure the prevention or detection and correction of errors to the extent that this would actually be possible.
Many cases were identified where controls failed. o The Commission's self-assessment of its performance has been followed up and has led to positive improvements compared with previous years.
Nevertheless, the Court's 2011 audit found that good quality needs analysis was often lacking, weaknesses in the programming approach had to be addressed in reporting on results and impacts and demonstrated by the Commission as a European added value.
ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE EU BUDGET FOR 2011 The Court devoted most of its audits to the accounting and compliance audits during 2012 to the implementation of the EU budget for 2011.
The 2011 Annual Report, which resulted from this work, was published on 6 November 2012.
The aim of the annual report is to help the European Parliament, the Council and citizens to assess the quality of EU financial management by presenting findings and conclusions and recommend appropriate improvements.
The 18th Annual Statement of Assurance (DAS) on the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions is the core element of the annual reports for 2011.
The annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2011 included two new chapters, which contain more targeted results for agriculture and cohesion.
The former chapter on agriculture and natural resources was replaced by the chapter on "Agriculture: market support and direct payments" and "Rural development, environment, fisheries and health".
The separate chapters on regional policy, energy and transport and employment and social affairs also replace the earlier chapter on cohesion, energy and transport.
12 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND FOR 2011 The European Development Funds (EDFs) are financed by EU Member States but managed outside the EU budget, subject to their own financial regulations.
The European Commission is responsible for the financial management of operations financed from EDF resources.
The European Union shall provide development cooperation assistance to the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) and the overseas countries and territories (OCTs) from the European Development Fund (EDF) on the basis of the Cotonou Agreement signed in 2000.
The expenditure concerned is designed to reduce poverty and ultimately to defeat it, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the ACP States and OCTs into the world economy.
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars, namely development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension.
The Court's 2011 annual report on the EDF was published in parallel with the annual report on the EU budget on 6 November 2012.
The Court noted that the 2011 financial statements of the EDFs are appropriate to the financial situation of the EDFs and the results of their operations and cash flows.
However, 33% of EDF operations were affected by errors, including an estimated 5.1% of error payments.
SPECIAL ANNUAL REPORTS ON AGENCIES, DECENTRAL BODIES AND OTHER EU BODIES FOR 2011 In 2012, the Court published 50 special annual reports, mostly concerning the 2011 financial year, on agencies, decentralised bodies (e.g. Joint Undertakings) and other EU bodies.
EU agencies and decentralised bodies shall be established on the basis of EU legislation to carry out specific tasks.
President Caldeira at the presentation of the 2011 Annual Report at the plenary session of the European Parliament (November 2012)
SPECIAL REPORTS ADOPTED IN 2012 In addition to its annual reports, the Court publishes special reports throughout the year containing the results of the Court's economic and compliance audits on specific budgetary areas or management issues of its choice.
In selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court is committed to achieving maximum impact and thus making the best use of its resources.
In selecting the subjects, the Court shall take into account the following factors:
In 2012, the Court adopted 25 special reports covering a wide range of topics.
This represents a significant increase compared to the 16 special reports adopted in 2011 (and the 12 in 2008).
All special reports are available in 22 EU languages on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in full or from the EU Bookshop.
The following pages present the topics of the special reports adopted in 2012, each under the corresponding headings of the 2013-2017 financial framework – the EU's multiannual budget.
14 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – SUSTAINABLE GROWTH EU spending on sustainable growth covers two areas: competitiveness includes promoting research and technological development, networking Europe through EU networks, education and training, promoting competitiveness in a fully integrated internal market, the social agenda and the dismantling of nuclear installations.
The EU's expenditure on growth and employment for the period 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 89.4 billion, i.e. 9.2% of the EU budget, of which nearly two thirds is research and development.
Cohesion for growth and employment is mainly concerned with cohesion policy, which is implemented through funds for specific areas of activity: European Social Fund (ESF), European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and Cohesion Fund (CF).
The EU budget for cohesion for the period 2007-2013 is EUR 348.4 billion and 35.7% of the total EU budget.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Financial instruments for SMEs co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (No 2/2012) – This special report assessed the effectiveness and effectiveness of the ERDF co-financed financial measures in the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods. e audit covered a sample of projects in Germany, Portugal, Slovakia, Hungary and the United Kingdom, and also included an analysis of the Commission and Member States' administrative, monitoring and information systems.
The Court concluded that the effectiveness and efficiency of the expenditure on financial instruments for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) were affected because the regulatory framework did not provide an adequate basis for the use of the various types of financial instruments.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) form the backbone of the EU economy and provide employment, innovation and prosperity.
However, SMEs may not be able to meet their financial needs in the form and amount required.
To support them, the EU is using its business and cohesion policy, mainly in the form of aid, and increasingly in the ERDF framework through financial instruments.
Financial instruments are repayable revolving instruments.
The Commission figures indicate that ERDF allocations for financial instruments amount to EUR 1.6 billion and EUR 10.4 billion for the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods respectively.
o Structural Funds – Has the Commission effectively responded to shortcomings identified in the Member States' management and control systems?
(No 3/2012) – This special report examined the extent to which the Commission initiated appropriate corrective measures, ensured their timely implementation and had sufficient assurance that its measures would achieve appropriate financial corrections to past irregularities and improvements in systems to avoid the recurrence of irregularities.
The examination was primarily based on a review of 40 programmes, which identified significant deficiencies.
The Court noted that the Commission was quite successful in ensuring the correct application of financial corrections in relation to the shortcomings in the Member States' management and control systems, but that it was only less secure that its measures would lead to improvements in Member States' systems.
Structural Fund expenditure is subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
Member States shall establish multiannual programmes, which shall be examined and approved by the Commission and subsequently implemented by the Member States.
In the event of significant deficiencies in the management and control systems of the Member States, the Commission is seeking to correct irregularities and improve systems. o Use of structural and cohesion funds to co-finance transport infrastructure in seaports: an effective investment?
(No 4/2012) – This special report assessed the effectiveness of the objectives and outputs of 27 projects co-financed by the ERDF and Cohesion Fund under the reporting code for "Transport Infrastructure".
The Court noted that investment in maritime port infrastructure under cohesion policy was only effective for 11 of the 27 projects audited.
Maritime transport is the second most important mode of transport in the EU.
The Commission is forecasting growth of 3.8 billion tonnes in 2006 to 5.3 billion tonnes in 2018.
Since 2000, the EU has made some 6.2 billion euros available from the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund for co-financing the maritime port infrastructure.
15 Audit of EU transport expenditure
16 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – SUSTAINABLE GROWTH o Does the promotion of urban waste infrastructure projects under structural measures provide effective support to Member States in achieving the objectives of EU waste policy?
(No 20/2012) – This special report assessed the performance of 26 sampled infrastructure projects for waste management, which assessed the achievement of the objectives of the EU waste policy and the implementation of accompanying measures in the eight regions where the infrastructure is located.
The Court noted that the effectiveness of supporting urban waste infrastructure in the context of EU structural measures was affected by the inadequate implementation of accompanying measures and by weaknesses in EU legislation and guidelines.
In 2010, each citizen of the 27 EU Member States produced an average of about 500 kg of waste, which, if not properly collected, treated and disposed of, can lead to negative environmental impacts.
The EU has introduced common standards and targets in the form of directives for the management of municipal waste and co-finances infrastructure for waste management in certain regions.
In the period 2000-2013, the EU earmarked 10.8 billion euros for waste management infrastructure. o Cost-effectiveness of energy efficiency investments under cohesion policy (No 21/2012) – This special report assessed whether investments in energy efficiency under cohesion policy were cost-effective by examining whether the right conditions had been created for planning and financing to enable cost-effective energy efficiency investments and whether the energy efficiency projects carried out in public buildings were cost-effective.
The Court noted that the average payback period of EU investments in energy efficiency is more than 50 years (in extreme cases up to 150 years), which means that funds could be used more cost-effectively for this type of investment.
The costs of increased energy consumption, the exhaustion of fossil fuel resources and the impact of human action on global climate change are the driving forces of the recent EU policies to increase energy efficiency.
Since 2000, the European Union has spent almost EUR 5 billion in co-financing energy efficiency measures in the Member States under cohesion policy. o Has the revitalisation of industrial and military breaks been successfully promoted in the framework of EU structural measures?
(No 23/2012) – This special report examined whether the project objectives were achieved, whether the EU funding target was based on sound criteria and whether the results achieved were achieved at the lowest possible cost to the EU budget.
The Court assessed the performance of 27 projects for the revitalisation of waste land using EU co-financing for a total of EUR 231 million and analysed the instruments for the revitalisation of waste land, which form the framework for the specific co-financed measures, in Germany, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and the United Kingdom.
(The conclusions of this special report are to be published on 18 April 2013.)
In recent decades, more and more abandoned industrial and military areas (so-called "castle areas") have become available.
Many waste areas are contaminated.
Revitalisation and reuse of wasteland will be encouraged through EU structural measures with the aim of promoting the protection of human health and the environment and preventing the sprawl of the landscape.
EU funding for this sector amounted to a total of 5.7 billion euros in 2000-2013.
o Response of the European Union Solidarity Fund to the earthquake in Abruzzo in 2009: relevance and costs of the measures (No 24/2012) – This special report assessed whether the financed measures were in line with the EUSF Regulation and whether the construction project "CASE", which was the main source of expenditure, was well planned and designed and carried out with due regard to the aspect of economy.
The Court noted that while the other projects financed were eligible, the CASE project was not in line with the EUSF Regulation.
There were also weaknesses in the planning of the CASE project and in ensuring the economy of its implementation.
The 2009 earthquake, which is the centre of the Italian region of Abruzzo, caused damage of more than 10 billion euros.
The European Union supported the Italian disaster management with a contribution of 0.5 billion euros from its solidarity fund, which was used for rescue operations, emergency shelters and temporary schools, and for the CASE project for the construction of earthquake-proof houses.
The Cathedral of L'Aquila in Italy almost four years after the 2009 earthquake o Are there instruments to monitor the effectiveness of expenditure on older workers from the European Social Fund?
(No 25/2012) – This special report examined whether and to what extent the Member States and the Commission have developed and implemented appropriate instruments to assess the achievement of the targets for older workers.
Six programmes worth 222 million euros were selected, and the programmes concerned four Member States: Germany, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
The Court noted that neither the Member States nor the Commission could make statements on the extent to which ESF-supported measures have actually had a beneficial effect on older workers.
From 2007 to the end of 2013, ESF expenditure to support Member States in the field of employment will be over EUR 75 billion, representing around 8% of the EU total budget.
One of the most important disadvantaged groups is older workers.
17 Newly built earthquake-proof living space in the Italian L-Aquila
18 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – SURVEILLANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES The EU has a high political responsibility in the fields of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2007-2013 amounts to EUR 413.1 billion, i.e. 42.3% of the total EU budget.
Three quarters of the expenditure relates to direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) – the ‘first pillar' of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
Another fifth of the expenditure is support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the second "pillar of the CAP".
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Reform of the common organisation of the market in wine: progress made so far (No 7/2012) – This special report assessed progress towards one of the main objectives of wine reform, namely progress in achieving a better balance between supply and demand.
The review focused on the measures "Rodungspremie" and "Restructuring and conversion of vineyards" which form the two largest areas of expenditure and are of crucial importance for achieving the objective of achieving a better balance between supply and demand.
The Court noted that these two measures were in conflict with each other and that the structural surplus on supply was not significantly reduced.
The EU has made available EUR 1.1 billion of budget for the three-year period of application of the grubbing-up measure (2008/2009 to 2010/2011).
For restructuring and conversion, EUR 4.2 billion was allocated for the ten-year period up to 2010. o Aid for modernisation of agricultural holdings was targeted at specific objectives (No 8/2012) – This special report examined whether EU aid for modernisation of agricultural holdings was geared to EU priorities and specific needs in the Member States.
The Court noted that the measure to modernise farms would have been potentially more effective by more targeted use of the means to achieve EU priorities and specific requirements in Member States, on the one hand, and by the actual use of selection procedures on the other.
This aid concerns the financing of investments in agricultural holdings, ranging from investments for simple items such as agricultural equipment or fruit crates to investments in complex projects such as biogas plants.
The EU budget for this aid (which comes from the EAFRD) amounts to a total of EUR 11.1 billion for the 2007-2013 programming period, representing around 11% of all EU rural development expenditure. o Audit of the control system governing the production, processing, distribution and import of organic products (No 9/2012) – This special report examined whether the control system for organic products provides sufficient assurance that the key production, processing, distribution and import requirements for organic products are met.
The various bodies involved (the EU Commission and competent authorities of the Member States, accreditation bodies and control bodies) have been involved in their tasks within the EU and in managing import arrangements.
The Court noted that the competent authorities in the Member States encountered difficulties in ensuring traceability of organic products, and that weaknesses in the system were addressed in order to ensure that the system worked effectively and to ensure that consumer confidence was not undermined.
The objective of the EU regulatory framework for organic production is to provide a basis for the sustainable development of organic production, to ensure fair competition, to protect consumer interests and, at the same time, to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market.
A control system was established to monitor and certify each operator in the supply chain. o Direct aid for suckler cows and ewes and goats under the partial implementation of the single payment scheme (No 11/2012) – This special report examined whether the aid was directed towards the most relevant regions in the Member States, whether it was effective in maintaining specific production and thus avoiding negative social, economic and environmental impacts and whether it was the subject of appropriate monitoring and evaluation by the Commission and the Member States.
The Court noted that direct CAP support for mother stock does not deliver better results than decoupled aid.
Following the 2003 CAP reform, agricultural aid previously granted in the form of direct payments linked to the production of certain agricultural products (so-called ‘coupled' aid) should no longer be paid on production-related terms after the introduction of the single payment scheme (i.e. decoupled).
However, for certain sectors and regions, some exemptions from full decoupling have been provided to limit the potential negative effects of an immediate transition to such a scheme.
The total budget available for this direct aid for 2011 was EUR 1.0 billion.
19 On-the-spot verification of a beneficiary holding in Spain
20 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – SURVEILLANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES o Implementation of EU hygiene rules in slaughterhouses of countries that have joined the EU since 2004 (No 14/2012) – This special report examined whether the Commission and the Member States concerned have taken the necessary measures to ensure that appropriate adjustments to EU hygiene rules have been made in slaughterhouses.
The monitoring, guidance, implementation and funding of the measures to comply with hygiene rules were reviewed.
The Court examined slaughterhouses in Poland, Romania, Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Hungary, which had received EU funding.
While the Court found that the systems established to monitor the hygiene rules were generally appropriate, the audit identified a number of shortcomings in the implementation of these systems, which made it clear that greater rigour is needed at all levels to mitigate risks.
Member States that joined the EU since 2004 had to ensure that their slaughterhouses complied with EU hygiene rules.
Since these rules generally contained much stricter requirements than the national rules, EU funds were allocated to help slaughterhouses comply with the hygiene rules and the associated modernisation.
The Special Programme for Pre-Accession in Agriculture and Rural Development (Sapard Programme) provided some EUR 117 million for 241 slaughterhouses.
The support was then continued under the EAGGF and EAFRD. o The effectiveness of the single area payment scheme as a transitional system for supporting farmers in the new Member States (No 16/2012) – This special report examined the main weaknesses, such as payments to beneficiaries who did not carry out (or only marginal) agricultural activities, payments to abandoned areas or areas used for non-agricultural activities, payments to public authorities and aid concentrated on a few large beneficiaries.
The Court noted that some of the aid was paid to beneficiaries who were engaged in only marginal or non-agricultural activities, including public bodies, and that the distribution of the aid did not take into account the regional specificities of the agricultural activity or the contribution of farmers to the production of public goods.
Moreover, the vast majority of farmers receive very small amounts of aid.
The single area payment scheme is a simplified income support scheme for farmers in the Member States that have joined the EU since 2004.
In 2011, payments amounted to around 5 billion euros.
HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – FREEDOM, SECURITY AND LAW In 2012, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: o Does the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund contribute effectively to the integration of third-country nationals?
(No 22/2012) – This special report assessed whether the European Integration Fund and the European Refugee Fund, which are part of the EU's General Programme "Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows" for the period 2007-2013 (SOLID), have contributed effectively to the integration of third-country nationals into the EU, whether the results have been supported by an efficient monitoring and evaluation of the programme, whether the Fund's design has contributed to the effective implementation of the funds and whether the systems for implementing integration measures under the SOLID programme have been properly managed.
The Court found that, although positive results were found for individual projects examined, systems which were unsuitable for measuring the success of the funds had been established.
The effectiveness of the Funds was reduced by the design of the programme and coordination with other EU funds was insufficient.
The EU promotes measures to integrate third-country nationals into EU Member States and increases solidarity by allocating the financial burdens arising from the management of common external borders and the implementation of common policies in the areas of asylum and immigration.
The total EU budget for SOLID is expected to be EUR 4.0 billion over the period 2007-2013.
21 This policy area has been established to ensure the free movement of persons and to provide citizens with a high level of protection.
It ranges from the administration of the EU's external borders to judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters.
It includes asylum and immigration policy, police cooperation and the fight against crime.
Expenditure on this area for the period 2007-2013 is expected to be EUR 12.2 billion.
22 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – THE EU AS A GLOBAL PARTNER The EU's external relations activities focus on: enlargement, the achievement of stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood, active support for sustainable development at international level, the promotion of global political governance and the safeguarding of strategic and civil security.
The EU has allocated EUR 55.9 billion, i.e. 5.7% of its planned total expenditure, to these objectives for the period 2007-2013.
Expenditure is mainly managed directly by the Commission through its central services or delegations.
In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: o Effectiveness of European Union development assistance for food security in sub-Saharan Africa (No 1/2012) – This special report examined the effectiveness of EU development assistance for food security in sub-Saharan Africa by analysing whether EU development assistance for food security is relevant to the needs and priorities of countries and whether EU action was effective.
The review focused on EU direct development assistance to the three pillars of food security, namely food availability, access to food and balanced nutrition.
The Court concluded that EU development assistance to food security in sub-Saharan Africa is predominantly effective and makes an important contribution to food security.
However, the Commission did not take sufficient account of the possibilities for EU support to other countries also affected by chronic food insecurity and did not give the food aspect an appropriate priority.
Food security is a major and persistent problem in sub-Saharan Africa, where 30% of the population is affected by hunger.
In the period 2002-2010, the EU financed food security measures in this region totalling more than 3.2 billion euros from the European Development Fund (EDF). o The Joint RELEX Information System (CRIS) (No. 5/2012) – This special report examined whether CRIS had been designed to meet the Commission's needs effectively and whether the information it provided was reliable.
The audit included a review of the documentation available to the Commission for CRIS and the examination of the data contained in CRIS.
The Court concluded that CRIS met the Commission's information needs on external action largely effectively.
However, after ten years of development, it still has weaknesses.
CRIS is the information system set up by the Commission to support the management of external actions.
The functions of the system have been continuously expanded since its commissioning in 2002.
It is now the main reference information system for the management and documentation of external actions, including related reporting, and is financed from both the EU general budget and the European Development Funds (EDF).
o European Union assistance to the Turkish Cypriot Community (No 6/2012) – This special report examined whether the Commission was developing an assistance programme that was in line with the objectives of the instrument, whether appropriate implementation arrangements were established and whether the individual projects met their respective outcome targets.
The purpose of the examination was not to assess whether the programme had contributed to the achievement of the political objective of reunification.
The Court noted that the programme had met its objectives as a financial support instrument for the Turkish Cypriot community and that it had generally established appropriate arrangements despite considerable constraints.
Some results have already been achieved, but their sustainability is often questionable and the most extensive project of the programme has not been established.
About one third of this amount was assessed by the Court using its sample of contracts. o European Union development assistance in the field of drinking water and basic sanitation in the sub-Saharan region (No 13/2012) – This special report examined whether the Commission had managed EU development assistance to improve drinking water and basic sanitation in sub-Saharan Africa in a way that had achieved effective and sustainable results.
The Court noted that EU support has improved access to drinking water and basic sanitation.
On the other hand, the needs of the beneficiaries have been met satisfactorily for less than half of the projects examined and the benefits will only be met if revenue not based on taxes is secured.
Improvements in water and sanitation are crucial to achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
Supply of clean drinking water and sanitation contributes to economic growth and poverty reduction.
EU spending on water and sanitation in the sub-Saharan region for the period 2001-2010 amounted to around EUR 1.0 billion, but since funding for water and sanitation is also provided for in other areas of assistance, the Commission has allocated a larger amount overall.
23 Water kiosk in Jigawa State, Nigeria
24 HEADING OF THE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK – THE EU AS GLOBALER PARTNER o Contribution of the European Development Fund (EDF) to a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa (No 17/2012) – This special report examined whether the EDF has made an effective contribution to the sustainability of the road network in sub-Saharan Africa, whether the EDF-funded road infrastructure is sustainable and whether the Commission has effectively promoted the sustainability of road infrastructure.
The audit focused on the technical, financial and institutional sustainability of road infrastructure, and was carried out under 48 programmes funded by the eighth, ninth and tenth EDFs in six partner countries since 1995.
The Court concluded that the Commission's support for a sustainable road network in sub-Saharan Africa was conditionally effective.
The partner countries visited by the Court do not make sufficient efforts to ensure the sustainability of road infrastructure, which affects roads to varying degrees of premature wear and tear.
Roads and other transport infrastructures are essential for regional integration, economic growth, social development, effective public administration and security.
In sub-Saharan Africa, road transport is the main mode of transport for passenger and freight transport and accounts for more than 80% of total transport of goods and services, with transport needs growing rapidly.
The EU committed approximately 7.4 billion euros of EDF funds in this region in 1995-2011. o EU rule of law assistance to Kosovo (No 18/2012) (see "Beginning an economic impact assessment").
Control of a road in Tanzania
25 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT EU Rule of Law Assistance to Kosovo The Kosovo Police and EULEX at Kosovo's Border Patrol © EULEX, 2011, Photo by Enisa Kasemi During its examination of EU Rule of Law Assistance to Kosovo, the Court first highlighted a Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP) mission.
Kosovo is the world's largest per capita recipient of EU financial assistance and the scene of the largest civilian crisis management operation ever launched by the Union (EULEX – EULEX).
Court Special Report No 18/2012 addressed the question of whether EU assistance to Kosovo was effective in the field of rule of law.
The audit focused on the four sectors of police, justice, customs and the fight against corruption.
The Court also examined coordination with other donors and the implementation of EULEX.
The examination of such a complex area was a challenge.
Four verification visits were carried out in Kosovo.
EULEX and European Commission officials were also consulted, as were local officials, representatives of the international donor community and civil society organisations.
The audit team examined projects under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance and Stability Instrument Projects, as well as monitoring, guidance and guidance (MMA) measures implemented by EULEX.
Meetings were held in Brussels with the Commission, the European External Action Service, the Council Secretariat and NATO.
The Court also supported a panel of experts.
The Court noted that EU aid was not sufficiently effective.
Although the EU has contributed to capacity building, particularly in the customs field, the success of assistance in the police and justice sectors has been modest.
The extent of organised crime and corruption in Kosovo remains high.
The judiciary continues to suffer from political influence, inefficiency and a lack of transparency and enforcement.
The limited capacity to protect important witnesses within Kosovo and the difficulty of moving witnesses abroad are significant shortcomings.
In the words of Gijs de Vries, the Court's member responsible for the report, the Kosovar authorities do not give sufficient priority to the rule of law and EU assistance should be more effective.
Francisco de Miguel Rodriguez, head of the audit team, says that there is no other place worldwide like Kosovo, where so many international donors could be found to provide capacity building in such a small area.
The Court concluded that the EU coordination mechanisms, including coordination with the international community, need to be improved.
Unlike the rest of the Western Balkans, the lack of a common EU position on independence jeopardises the incentive to join the EU in the case of Kosovo.
In terms of communication, this examination has taken new paths.
It was the Court's most cited report in 2012: More than 130 articles appeared on it in print and electronic media.
In addition, a video was published on the Court's website, which summarised the report.
This was a premiere for the court, in which his ambition to reach a wider audience is reflected.
The European Commission and the European External Action Service have accepted the Court's conclusions and recommendations.
The report was presented to the European Parliament and Council working groups.
The importance of the report has led the House to decide to look at the report in detail.
26 EU INSTITUTIONS, AGENCIES AND OTHER BODIES In 2012, the Court adopted the following special reports in this area: The administrative expenditure of the EU institutions, agencies and other bodies includes expenditure on staff (contributions and pensions) and on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology.
The total expenditure for 2007-2013 is 55.9 billion euros and 5.7 % of the total EU budget. o Effectiveness of the measures to further develop staff at the European Commission (No 10/2012) – This special report examined whether the Commission has agreed to further develop its staff to the needs of the organisation, provided further development opportunities for its staff, created an environment that motivated staff to develop their skills and apply them at work.
The Commission's annual external training and teaching materials budget was EUR 26.6 million in 2010.The annual investment in learning and development also included 230 000 days of staff for training and a equivalent of 310 staff for the management and implementation of training and career development activities in 2010. o Has the procedures for producing reliable and credible European statistics been improved by the Commission and Eurostat?
(No 12/2012) – This special report assessed whether the procedures for producing reliable and credible statistics have been improved by the Commission and Eurostat.
Improvements are directly related to compliance with the Code of Conduct for European Statistics, which sets standards for the development, production and dissemination of statistics, and with the implementation of the European statistical programme.
No assessment of the reliability of specific statistical results has been made.
The Court noted that the Commission and Eurostat have not yet fully implemented the Code of Conduct for European statistics and that Eurostat had not designed the European statistical programme 2008-2012 as an effective planning, monitoring and accountability tool.
Reliable and credible statistics are crucial to the fulfilment of the tasks entrusted to the European Union.
Statistics are needed in almost all areas to formulate, apply, monitor and evaluate the tasks and objectives set out in the Treaties and are also needed for the collection and allocation of EU funds.
European policy decisions are increasingly based directly on statistics, and statistical indicators are increasingly being used as triggers for policy decisions or sanctions. o Conflict of interest in selected EU agencies (No 15/2012) – This special report assessed whether the selected agencies handled conflicts of interest adequately, whether adequate guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflicts of interest exist and whether the selected agencies have adequately implemented their policies and procedures for dealing with conflicts of interest situations.
The audit assessed the policy guidelines and procedures for dealing with conflict of interest situations in the case of four selected agencies that take influential decisions affecting consumer safety and health.
The Court concluded that the selected EU agencies did not adequately manage conflicts of interest.
CONTINUE RECOMMENDATIONS o 2011 report on the follow-up to the Special Reports of the European Court of Auditors (No 19/2012) – This report analysed the implementation by the Commission of the recommendations made by the Court in seven selected special reports from 2003-2009.
The special reports followed up covered three budgetary areas, namely agriculture, energy and external action.
The Court assessed the measures taken by the Commission on the basis of the Court's recommendations.
The audit showed that the recommendations were taken into account: the Commission fully implemented 29 % of the recommendations analysed, 49 % were largely implemented, 20 % were partially implemented and 2 % were not implemented.
For more details on follow-up measures based on the Court's recommendations, see page 39.
27 In 2012, the Court published a new type of report, a special report, which follows up on the implementation of the recommendations made in previous special reports.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS EN 2011 REPORT ON THE FOLLOW-UP OF THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS' SPECIAL REPORTS Special Reports No 19 2012 ISSN 1831-0834
28 OPINIONS AND POSITION PAPERS PROVIDED FOR IN 2012 The Court also contributes to improving EU financial management by providing opinions on proposals for new or amended acts with financial implications.
These opinions will be delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and used by the legislative authorities – the European Parliament and the Council – in their work.
The opinions are available in full on the Court's website http://eca.europa.eu in all the official languages of the EU.
29 OPINION No 1/2012 ON THE COMMISSION'S LEGISLATIVE PROPOSALS FOR THE REFORM OF THE COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY FROM 2014 The common agricultural policy (CAP) is to be reformed by 2013.
In October 2011, the Commission published a proposal containing the main elements of a regulatory framework for the CAP for the period 2014-2020.
The new legal framework proposed to maintain the current two-pillar structure of the CAP, and thus the two existing European agricultural instruments, namely the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
The Court recognised the efforts made by the Commission to simplify the CAP rules (e.g. the absence of different implementation models for the current single payment scheme, the introduction of a simplified scheme for small farmers).
The Commission has taken up a number of comments from Parliament, the Council and the Court through its proposals.
Nevertheless, the legislative proposals remain basically focused on expenditure and its control, and therefore continue to comply with performance legislation, contrary to the stated intention.
The Court took note of the Commission's objective of giving preference to CAP aid to "active farmers", and of its attempt to achieve a more balanced distribution of direct payments among beneficiaries.
However, the Court doubted that the proposed measures could be effectively implemented without imposing an excessive administrative burden on the administrative authorities and farmers.
He felt that the solution might be a combination of general principles laid down in the Regulation and systematic monitoring and expert monitoring of its implementation by the Commission.
It noted that the so-called "covering" (a reduction in aid exceeding a certain ceiling) will have only limited impact on the redistribution of aid.
This opinion had a significant impact on the future of the CAP.
More than 2,000 articles were published in the media on this subject.
The Court was invited by numerous NGOs, agricultural trade fairs and other industry forums to present the opinion to the audience, and the European Parliament invites representatives of the Court to participate in working groups on this subject.
Members of the European Parliament have included most of the recommendations in their own legislative proposals.
The legislative package will be voted on after the adoption of the multiannual financial framework.
30 COOPERATION WITH OTHER BORDER ACCOUNTS AUTHORITIES The Court works with other Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCBs) mainly in the following bodies: o Contact Committee of the SAIs of the EU Member States; o Network of the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries; o International organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
Meeting of EU liaison officers in Rome, April 2012 INTOSAI Subcommittee on Strengthening Skills in Luxembourg, September 2011
The EU Member States' ACCOUNTS COMMITTEE 31 The EU Treaty requires the Court of Auditors and the national audit bodies to cooperate in a trusting manner, while respecting their independence.
The Court is actively cooperating with the SAIs of the EU Member States within the Contact Committee.
The Contact Committee shall meet once a year with the Presidents of the EU-ORCB and the Court.
Working groups and task forces were set up to support the development of common positions and practices.
In 2012, the Court assisted the current Presidency of the Contact Committee (ORCB of Portugal) in preparing and holding the 2012 annual meeting, which took place in Estoril, Portugal, on 18 and 19 October 2012.
The meeting focused on two main issues: the challenges facing SAIs in preparing for the next EU financial framework (2014-2020), and recent developments in the responses to the financial crisis and the SAIs' experience with appropriate audits.
At the meeting, the Contact Committee decided to set up a task force to analyse the tasks and role of SAIs, taking into account recent developments in the EU in the development of a new economic, budgetary and financial architecture and the possible impact on SAIs.
The Court is a member of this task force, which is to report to the Contact Committee in 2013.
In addition, the Court also provided administrative support to the Contact Committee in 2012 and actively participated in the various working groups and networks.
In 2012, the Court also supported the initiative of the euro area SAIs to ensure adequate external public financial control of the European Stability Mechanism.
A common position on a proposal for the Statute concerning Article 30 of the Treaty establishing the Mechanism was sent to the Secretary-General of the Council of the European Union in April 2012.
The final version of the Statutes is broadly in line with this common position as regards the Audit Committee.
32 NETWORK OF THE BORDER ACCOUNTS AUTHORITIES OF THE COUNTRIES OF THE TRADEERS AND THE POTENCIAL COUNTRIES The Court cooperates with the SAIs of the Candidate Countries and the potential candidate countries.
One of the main instruments for cooperation is the network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries1 with its organisational structure comparable to the Contact Committee.
This network includes regular meetings of the presidents of SAIs and liaison officers, as well as working groups, seminars, workshops and parallel audits.
In 2012, the Court supported the implementation of the work programme, which is part of the Istanbul Agreement adopted at the meeting of the Presidents of the Network in March 2011.
The President of the Court took part in the ceremony on the occasion of the 150th anniversary of the Turkish Court of Auditors and paid an official visit to the Croatian Court of Auditors.
OTHER COOPERATION IN 2012 The Court continued its active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI.
In 2012, the Court continued to work on Objective 1 – Technical Standards – INTOSAI as a member o of the Subcommittee for Auditing Accounting, the Subcommittee for Auditing Compliance with Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Auditing; o of the Project Quality Control of Audits and the Harmonisation Project.
On Objective 2 – strengthening expertise – the INTOSAI, the Court contributed the following: o It supported the Subcommittee for the promotion of best practices and quality assurance through voluntary peer reviews and organised the fifth meeting. o It accompanied the work of the Subcommittee "Intensified support for measures for the development of expertise of INTOSAI members".
Under Objective 3 – Knowledge exchange – INTOSAI, the Court has been chairing the INTOSAI working group on the accountability and audit of disaster relief since 2008.
In 2012, the Working Group carried out the following work: o It prepared and is preparing for public discussion the five draft International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI) which form the new 5500-5599 series for the guidance on disaster response assessment. o It worked on a draft INTOSAI Good Governance Guidelines (INTOSAI GOV) on an integrated financial accountability framework at 1 In February 2013, the Network included an Acceding Country (Croatia), five candidate countries (the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and two potential candidate countries (Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina).
All five ISSAIs and INTOSAI GOVs will be presented to the next INTOSAI Congress for adoption in 2013.
In 2012, the Court also took the following steps: o It held the fourth meeting of the INTOSAI Committee Steering Committee for Knowledge Exchange, chaired by the SAIs. o It continued to contribute to the INTOSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment. o It participated in the joint meeting of the INTOSAI Working Group on Government Debts and the Task Force on Global Financial Crisis – Challenges for the SAIs.
The Court continued its participation in the IntoSAINT project, a self-assessment tool for SAIs, which is being supervised under the auspices of INTOSAI by the SAIs of the Netherlands.
In 2012, the Court's representatives moderated a week-long workshop to the Norwegian Court of Auditors on self-assessment of integrity. As regards EUROSAI, the Court took part in the XXXIX in 2012 (after being appointed a member of the Bureau).
The Court o participated in the tenth annual meeting of the EUROSAI Working Group on Environmental Assessment and contributed to the joint review on climate change adaptation presented by the Court on behalf of the Working Group at the 2012 meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC); o participated in the first meeting of the EUROSAI Task Force on Audit and Ethics and participated in the Task Force's activities.
In the framework of the joint conferences of the regional INTOSAI working groups, the Court was actively involved in the VIIth Conference of EUROSAI and the Latin American and Caribbean Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (OLACEFS). The main focus of this conference was the role of SAIs in promoting good administrative behaviour in the public sector.
33 4th meeting of the INTOSAI Committee Steering Committee for the Exchange of Knowledge in Luxembourg, September 2012
34 OUR MANAGEMENT OUTLINE: A STRATEGY FOR THE PERIOD 2013-2017 The Court adopted and published its strategy for the period 2013-2017 in 2012.
The Court's objective for this period is to maximise the value of the contribution the Court makes to the EU's public accountability.
The main priorities for achieving this objective are: o to focus the Court's products on improving the EU's accountability; o to cooperate with other stakeholders to increase the Court's contribution to EU accountability; o to develop as a professional audit body; o to make optimum use of the Court's wealth of knowledge, expertise and expertise; o to demonstrate the Court's capacity to perform and exercise its accountability.
The Court will use its unique powers and perspective, knowledge, expertise and partnerships established during the 35 years of its existence, to o contribute positively to future developments in the EU's governance mechanisms, policies and financial management; o assist other parties involved in the accountability process at EU level to identify the risks to EU accountability and to make easier use of audit results; o strengthen its professionalism by contributing to the development of new audit standards and best practices and applying them; o further streamline the processes for producing its reports and opinions; o improve its performance and the accountability framework in line with its obligations as an EU institution and SAIs; o implement budgetary discipline measures, including required job-plans during the period of validity of this strategy, in accordance with the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020.
In the period 2013-2017, the Court will focus its reports, opinions and comments on:
EXCHANGE IN THE COLLECTION OF THE HOFE The term of office of the members of the Court is six years, and a term of office is possible.
In 2012, five new members of the Court were appointed: Henrik Otbo (Denmark), Pietro Russo (Italy), Ville Itälä (Finland), Kevin Cardiff (Ireland) and Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain).
REworkED CONDUCT CODE FOR THE MEMBERS OF THE HOFE In February 2012, the Court adopted a new code of conduct for members, taking into account the changes that have occurred since the adoption of the previous code eight years ago.
In addition, the Court now publishes its members' declarations of interest on its website, which makes a significant contribution to transparency. 35
36 MEASUREMENT DATA ON THE PROPERTY OF THE HOF FINAL OF STRATEGY 2009-2012 In 2008, the Court published its first strategy.
This strategy was applied for the period 2009-2012 and aimed at achieving the maximum impact with the Court's audits and increasing efficiency through the best possible use of resources.
Overall, the Court was able to successfully implement its strategy 2009-2012.
The Court's recommendations were largely accepted: according to the Commission, around half of the recommendations made in 2011 were implemented, and the Court's main institutional addressees were satisfied with its annual and special reports, the quality of which is assessed as good and improved by external experts, and efficiency gains have enabled the Court to increase the number of staff in the audit chambers by 60 (501 in 2008 compared with 564 in 2011), and reduce the number of administrative and translation staff by 40.
For the 2009-2012 strategy period, the Court established a number of key performance indicators, which were intended to: o inform management of progress in implementing the objectives; o support the decision-making process; o provide performance-related information to the target group.
The key performance indicators are used to measure core parameters of the quality and impact of the Court's work, taking into account the position of key stakeholders and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources.
As 2012 was the last year of the 2009-2012 strategy period, the results of the key performance indicators, if available, are presented for every four years.
The Court will update the key performance indicators to be applied in the 2013-2017 strategy period, so that they reflect its new or revised priorities and demonstrate its performance and accountability as a professional audit body.
QUALITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE HOFE'S WORK The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of assessments by the addressees and expert reviews.
ASSESSMENT BY ADRESSATE The Court, by means of a survey, asked the main addressees of its reports (the European Parliament's Budgetary Control Committee and the Council's Budgetary Committee) to assess the quality and impact of the 2011 and 2012 annual reports.
The assessment was made on a five-stage scale (1 – very bad, 2 – bad, 3 – appropriate, 4 – good, 5 – very good).
4.5 4.0 3.5 3.9 4.2 4.0 4.2 105% of the target ASSESSMENT OF THE HOFES AUDIT REPORTS BY HAUPTADRESSATS 37 2009 2010 2011 2012 Outcome Target The result remained stable over the entire period, with a value between 3.9 and 4.2 on the five-stage scale.
It shows that the main addressees of the Court's reports are their quality and effect on average for "good."
In 2012, the Court achieved a result of this indicator, which was five percent above the target.
38 EXPERTS' REVIEWS Each year independent external bodies have reviewed the content and presentation of a sample of Court reports.
In 2012, the reviewers assessed eight special reports and the 2011 annual reports.
They assessed the quality of different aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "highly valuable" (4).
3.5 3.0 2.5 3.0 2.8 3.0 106% of the 2011 target 4.0 3.5 3.0 FEEDBACK OF THE MAIN TESTED BOARDS 3.7 3.7 3.6 97% of the target 2.8 REVIEW OF THE HOFE'S REPORTS BY EXPERTS 2009 2010 3.5 2009 2010 2011 2012 Result Target Outcome Target Outcome The result on the four-stage scale in the period 2009-2012 was between 2.8 and 3.0 and shows that the external experts assess the quality of the Court's reports as "satisfactory".
The reviews have provided the Court with valuable information on the quality of its reports and the recommendations of the reviewers are used for further improvements.
FEEDBACK OF THE MAIN TESTED CERTIFICATE Feedback from the main audited bodies on the quality and impact of the audits carried out by the Court in 2012 was obtained from a survey and assessment scale based on those used to assess the recipients.
The results were between 3.5 and 3.7 on the five-stage scale in the period 2009-2012. The results show that the most important audited bodies rate the Court's audits on average as "good."
Overall, the results of the assessments made between 2009 and 2012 by the addressees are positive and indicate that the main addressees of the Court value the quality and impact of the reports.
MEASURES RECOMMENDED The Court uses its audit experience primarily in the form of recommendations made in its reports to contribute to improving financial management.
In order to make changes, the Court's recommendations must first be accepted by the audited bodies and then implemented.
The farm therefore measures both parameters.
100 % 90 % 80 % 94 % 2009 94 % 2010 93 % 2011 Target 98 % 109 % of the 2012 target OF THE APPROPRIATE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE HOFE RECOMMENDATIONS RECOMMENDED BY THE TESTED AUTHORITIES The acceptance rate of the Court's recommendations by the audited bodies ranged from 93% to 98% in the period 2009-2012.
The target set for this indicator has been exceeded every year.
In 2011, the Court started to systematically monitor the implementation of its recommendations, taking into account that the implementation of some recommendations can take a lot of time due to their scale or complexity.
According to the Commission statistics, at the end of 2012, 63 % of the nearly 500 recommendations submitted in the period 2009-2012 were implemented.
More than half of the recommendations made in 2011 have already been implemented.
100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0 35 % After 1 year 56 % After 2 years 73 % After 3 years 76 % After 4 years RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE HOFES 39
40 EFFICIENCY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE RESOURCES INSTITUTE The Court assesses the efficiency and effectiveness of its resource use according to its ability to present reports and audit findings on time, to fulfil its financial management obligations and to ensure the well-being and expertise of its staff.
REPORTING REPORTS The Court monitors the effectiveness of its reporting process by comparing the number of reports planned for the year with the number of reports adopted and by checking whether these reports have been adopted within the deadlines set for each report.
100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 79 % 2008 91 % 2009 90 % 2010 83 % 2011 93 % 103% of the 2012 target 100 % 90 % 70 % 60 % 2008 67% 2009 80 % 2010 Result 75 % 73 % 81% of the 2012 target NUMBER OF REPORTS ADOPTED BY THE HOF ON THE NUMBER OF ORIGINAL REPORTS Outcome Target This indicator has been measured since 2008, and the number of reports actually adopted measured by the number of reports originally planned ranged from 79 % to 93 %.
The measurement has shown that the annual targets have been largely met but that further improvements are possible, in particular in the preparation of special reports.
The punctuality of the reports has also been measured since 2008.
The performance measurement is based on the dates for annual reports and special annual reports laid down in the legislation. The relevant deadlines for the special reports are laid down in the relevant planning documents.
NUMBER OF REPORTS OF THE HOFES 2011 2012 Objective
The result ranged from 67% to 73% between 2008 and 2012, thus remaining below the 90 % target set for this indicator.
The main reasons for this were an ambitious planning for the special reports and unpredictable events in the audit process.
The Court notes that while the accuracy of the planning of audit reports and the efficiency of audit work can be further improved, not only has it been possible to significantly increase the number of special reports produced during the period 2008-2012, but also to bring them closer to the 18-month target.
In the period 2008-2012, 85 special reports were adopted (compared to 51 special reports in the period 2003-2007), and the average lead time was reduced from 25 months in 2008 to 20 months in 2012.
The Court's 2013-2017 strategy includes a new initiative to further streamline reporting in order to improve the punctuality of reports and efficiency.
POWER OF AUDIT DESTINATIONS The Court uses audit notices to confirm the factual accuracy of the specific audit findings by the audited bodies.
Examination reports are therefore an important stage in the examination process.
In accordance with the Court's internal rules, audit reports should be drawn up within two months of the relevant audit visit, with an annual assessment of the extent to which that deadline has been complied with.
70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 20 % 54 % 58 % 61 % 90 % of the 2012 target 27 % 2008 2009 2010 2011 Outcome POWER OF THE HOFES AUDIT DESTINATION Achievement 43% The Court has found that there is a need for significant improvement in the preparation of the audit communications in terms of punctuality.
When the Court started measuring in 2008, it set two targets for punctuality of audit notifications, namely an improvement of 10 percent per year in performance and ensuring that 80% of audit notifications are prepared on time at the end of 2012.
The result for this indicator ranged from 27% to 61% in the period 2008-2012.
Although performance has improved significantly and the annual targets have largely been met, 2012 results are still below the long-term target of 80%.
The Court will continue to seek to achieve even better performance in this area. 41
42 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Court seeks to obtain a full audit opinion on the annual accounts and resources used by its independent auditor and discharge from the European Parliament following a favourable Council recommendation.
Full audit opinion Discharge is granted EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT OF THE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT OF THE HOFE BY BUDGET YEARS for April 2013 2008 2009 2010 2011 The Court received an unqualified audit opinion each year from the independent auditor and discharge from the European Parliament in respect of the implementation of the budget.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide the auditors with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training.
7 6 5 4 3 5.7 6.1 days 4.0 2009 5.2 104% of the target FORCE TRAINING PER TEST 2010 2011 2012 Result Target
Seminar on automatic translation procedures, January 2012 In the period 2009-2012, an auditer of the Court accounted for an average of 5.3 training days per year.
If the language courses are taken into account, one examiner accounts for an average of 10.6 training days per year.
The target set for continuing vocational training has been met every year since 2010.
COOPERATION ASSESSMENT The Court conducted internal surveys in 2009 and 2012 to measure the satisfaction of its employees.
Two indicators were derived from this survey: the percentage of employees generally satisfied with their work and the average level of employee satisfaction overall.
A scale of 1 to 4 was used, each value above 2.5 indicating general satisfaction.
TOTAL OF THEIR WORK PEACED WRITER OF THE HOFE GRAD OF WRITERS' SAFETY 100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 4 86 % 86 % 3 2 2.8 2.8 2009 2012 Result 2009 2012 Results These two surveys were very similar: 86 % of the employees were generally satisfied with their work and the overall level of employee satisfaction reached 2.8.
The results can therefore be considered good.
1 43 44 SUPPORT FOR AUDIT ACTIVITIES PERSONAL RESOURCES PERSONAL RESOURCES The Court's most important capital is its employees.
At 31 December 2012, the staff of the Court amounted to 887 staff (officials and temporary staff, but without members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
Of these, 573 are in examination chambers (including 123 employees in the members' cabinets).
In 2012, with a view to achieving the best possible use of resources, the simplification of procedures once again explored and implemented efficiency-enhancing possibilities in all activities.
As far as possible, posts released from the audit area through efficiency gains were transferred to the audit service and the President's services.
This increased the number of posts in the audit area by 14.4% since 2008, while the total number of posts approved to the Court increased by only 3.5%.
Output increased significantly over the same period (see page 9).
45 Distribution of the Court's posts on 31 December 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Examination 501 525 557 564 573 Translation 163 163 151 148 143 Administration 173 171 157 148 139 Presidential services 20 21 24 27 32 TOTAL 857 880 889 887 887 REPRESENTATION The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
The Court also provides for a limited number of graduates to be given a WORD OF A CONFIRM BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN Like the other EU institutions, the Court operates a policy of equal opportunities in terms of human resources management and recruitment.
After a continuous increase in the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now reached a close-to-balance in the proportion of men and women among its employees.
The Court adopted an action plan on equal opportunities at the end of 2012 to achieve a more balanced proportion of men and women at all levels of the institution.
In 2012, the Court hired 78 staff: 50 officials, 11 temporary staff and 17 contract staff.
The number of vacancies has been close to 3% since 2011 (on 31 December 2012 28 vacancies were vacant).
46 The following graphs show the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2012.
The proportion of women at AD level reached 40% in 2012 and is likely to continue to increase in the future, as 46% of employees in the AD5 to AD8 initial grades are women after the last recruitment waves.
Of the 69 directors and heads of units, 21 (30%) are women, which is the same as in recent years.
Most of them are employed in the Directorate for Translation and the Administrative Services.
Assistants – Secretaries (AST function group) 2011 2012 2011 2012 ALTERSPROFILE Men 33% 33% Women 67% 67% Directors and Head of Auditor Unit – Administrators (AD function group) Men 2011 72% 2012 70% Women 28% 30% Men 61% 60% Women 39% 40% The age profile of the staff in active employment on 31 December 2012 shows that 60% of the Court's staff are 44 years old or younger.
20-24 0.1 % 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 One third of directors and heads of unit are 55 years of age or older.
VOCATIONAL TRAINING The profession of the examiner requires continuous training to keep pace with new developments and acquire new skills.
In addition, the audit staff need good knowledge of foreign languages due to the specific circumstances of the Court's audit environment.
In 2012, the Court staff (auditors and other staff) completed on average 8 days of professional training (9.3 days in 2011).
Language courses accounted for 52% of the total number of training days (compared to 54% in 2011).
Translation is an audit support activity that enables the Court to fulfil its mission and to achieve its communication objectives.
In 2012, the translation volume reached a peak of 158,861 pages, which was 11% higher than in 2011.
More than 99% of the translations were completed on time.
Information technology is a key factor in the effectiveness and efficiency of the Court.
2012 was a successful year: o In the field of knowledge management, the Court's first version of the new audit support instrument (ASSYST2) was set up and a pilot phase was launched in an audit unit.
In addition, a first knowledge network (Community of practice) on the subject of financial crisis was supported by providing information technology and content. In 2012, improvements in the content of training activities were made and new courses were developed to meet the priorities in the audit area.
The establishment of a new paperless system and the development of eLearning also enabled more efficient management of training activities.
TRANSLATION INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY The Directorate for Translation of the Court also provided linguistic support to auditors in the Member States for audits and subsequent stages of drafting audit reports.
It also supported INTOSAI working groups and met other specific needs related to the Court's audit activities. o The automation of administrative procedures has been actively pursued through the introduction of ECademy to support the Court's training policy, by decentralising time recording, saving human resources, and by the complete digitisation of personnel files. o A great success was the move of the Court's data centre to the new K3 building.
The new building was also commissioned with a new telephone system and a new data network. 47
48 MANAGEMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE In 2012, the Directorate for Finance and Support Services continued to provide: a) provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mission and achieve its strategic objectives, and b) ensure that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all the Court's activities.
In order to provide the staff of the farm with a safe, comfortable and ergonomic working environment and to ensure that all the staff of the farm work at one location, a second extension building was commissioned in 2003.
The farm took the building down in November 2012, and the first moves took place before the end of the year.
In 2012, the Directorate made its activities even more efficient and economical.
In October 2012, the Court's office in Brussels was moved to another location.
It is now located in the MTS (Montoyer-Science) building on Rue Montoyer 30/ Rue de la Science in Brussels.
REFERENCES FOR THE C3 BUILDING The K3 building was completed on time, in accordance with quality regulations and within the financial framework.
Additional work will be carried out in 2013 in the other buildings of the yard.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union.
The Court's budget accounts for around 0.1% of total EU expenditure and 1.72% of total administrative expenditure.
The Court of Auditors' budget for 2012 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution* 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions Title 1 — Total Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure Final appropriations Commitments Use of commitments in % Payments in EUR 1 000 49 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET 2012 14 592 92 335 4 148 3 802 2 972 117 849 13 785 89 015 3 810 3 512 2 879 113 001 10 703 9 508 963 612 685 1 843 24 344 137 345 94% 96% 92% 92% 97% 96% 96% 99% 99% 99% 96% 96% 13 557 88 836 3 758 2 604 2 148 110 903 7 009 4 524 690 294 499 748 13 764 124 667 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution 20 – Building 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212 – Total of the meetings and expenses of the staff of the institution and of the institution for the staff of the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the purpose of the institution for the purpose of the institution for the institution for the purpose of the institution for the purpose of the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the purpose of the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the purpose of the institution for the purpose of the purpose of the purpose of the institution for the institution for the purpose of the institution for the purpose of the institution for the purpose of the institution for the purpose of the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the purpose of the purpose of the institution for the institution for the purpose of the purpose of the purpose of the institution for the institution for the purpose of the purpose of the institution for the institution for the purpose of the purpose of the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the purpose of the institution for the purpose of the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the purpose of the institution for the purpose of the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the institution for the purpose of the purpose of the purpose of the purpose of the purpose of the purpose of the institution for
50 In 2012, the overall budget implementation rate was 96 %.
For Title 1, this rate is 96%, the lowest in Chapter 14 (Other staff and external services) and Article 162 (Services) of Chapter 16 (Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution) (92%).
For Title 2, the average execution rate is 99%.
The amount of payments charged to Chapter 20 (buildings) depends on the work on the construction of the second extension of the courtyard (K3 building).
The fourth tranche of 3 million euros for this project was entered in the 2012 budget, which was committed and partially paid out in 2012.
The remaining amount of the funds for the K3 building was transferred to 2013 and is intended to finance the contracts awarded by the project manager on behalf of the Court to construction companies.
The construction costs for the K3 building are estimated at a total of 79 million euros, which will be financed in five consecutive years: 55 million euros in 2009, 11 million euros in 2010, 7 million euros in 2011 and 6 million euros in 2012 and 2013.
2013 BUDGET The 2013 budget has seen a slight increase of 0.2% compared to 2012.
BUDGET Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 10 – Members of the institution* 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 14 566 97 772 4 176 3 700 2 728 122 942 8 327 7 197 830 413 768 2 284 19 819 142 761 14 592 96 487 4 173 3 802 2 682 121 736 9 941 6 501 837 525 793 2 144 20 741 142 477 2013 in EUR 1 000 2012 in EUR 1 000 51 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution Title 2: Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 20 – Building 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 23 – Current operating expenses Title 1 total 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications Total of the European Court of Auditors Title 2 total * This chapter covers the remuneration and remuneration of officials and staff and the expenses of the current members and the transitional expenses of the staff and the pensions for former members.
52 AUDIT AND ACCOUNTS EXTERNAL AUDIT OF THE HOFES The Court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important example of the Court applying the same transparency and accountability principles to itself as to the bodies it examines.
The auditor's audit report – PricewaterhouseCoopers SARL – on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 was published in October 20122.
The audit reports of the Court of Auditors on 31 December 2011 and the results and cash flows for the year ending on that date, are, in our opinion, a true picture of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2011, in accordance with Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 and Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 of 23 December 2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of the above-mentioned Council Regulation and the accounting rules of the European Union (EC accounting rules), and the control procedures set up in accordance with the above-mentioned criteria.
OJ C 315 of 18.10.2012.
53 DECLARATION OF THE REFERRED TO IN PROVIDED FOR INSTITUTION I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable certainty that the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes envisaged and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the proper handling of fraud or suspected fraud.
This sufficient security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and on the information available to him, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers by subdelegation, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 7 March 2013 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
54 35 YEARS IN THE SERVICE OF A BETTER FUNCTIONING OF THE EU The European Court of Auditors has been the external auditor of the EU for 35 years. It continuously provides added value for the financial management of the Union and ensures public accountability for the use of taxpayers' money.
The Court was founded at a time when the European Community (the forerunner of the European Union) was developing towards more democracy and becoming more accountable to its citizens.
Two particularly important steps were the enlargement of the European Parliament's budgetary control powers and the full financing of the European Community budget from its own resources.
The Community recognised the need for an independent external auditor to assist Parliament and the Council in ensuring democratic control of finances.
Mr Heinrich Aigner, Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament, who had been strongly in favour of an external audit body at Community level since 1973, opposed the initiative leading to the establishment of the European Court of Auditors by the Treaty of Brussels on 22 July 1975.
The Court began its activities in October 1977, with its headquarters in Luxembourg.
The then President of the Court of Justice, Hans Kutscher, acknowledged the Court as a financial conscience of the Community.
The Court, having obtained full European status on 1 November 1993, with the entry into force of the Maastricht Treaty, thus guaranteeing its independence and authority as an equivalent body.
The Maastricht Treaty also introduced what is now a core product of the Court, namely the DAS (Déclaration d'assurance) on the accounts of the EU and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the annual accounts.
The Court's role was strengthened with the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam on 1 May 1999, which strengthened the Court's independence and extended its audit powers to other policy areas.
The Treaty of Nice of 1 February 2003 confirmed the principle that the Court should be a member of each Member State, and stressed the importance of the Court's cooperation with national audit bodies and gave the Court the opportunity to establish a structure for the Court.
Since its establishment, the Court has consistently promoted cooperation with the Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities in the audit of EU funds, in particular through its participation in the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the EU-ORKB.
In its role as SAIs, the Court also sought to shape developments in the field of public sector audit by working with other SAIs in the International Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and its EUROSAI regional group to define technical standards and best practices.
The Court was early on in its peer review process as an instrument for developing and disseminating best practices within the SAIs Community.
During its 35th anniversary, the Court sought to contribute to improving EU financial management by presenting high-quality products that reflected the EU's developments and the changing needs of its users.
Over the past 35 years, the EU has taken in new Member States, gained new powers and created new institutions at EU level – all of which the Court had to take into account in its work.
As a result, the Court's output has increased significantly compared to the two opinions it issued in the first year of its activity.
The Court's products today include annual reports, special reports, statements of assurance, special annual reports, opinions and position papers.
The number of outputs has increased to 87 publications in 2012.
For several years, the Court has given higher priority to examining the results achieved in implementing EU policies and providing guidance on improving economic efficiency.
Like the EU, the Court has developed.
Based on nine members and 120 employees in 1977, the Court now has 27 members and almost 900 employees.
Like the Union itself, the success of the Court depends on close cooperation between members and staff from all European countries.
The Court is proud that since 1977 it has been able to build up a dedicated, professional and experienced staffing team that is committed to protecting the financial interests of citizens.
In the coming years, the Court will devote itself to contributing to improving accountability for the resources allocated to meet the objectives towards citizens.
55 Members of the Court's first College, November 1977
European Court of Auditors Annual Activity Report 2012 Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union 2013 – 55 pp. – 21 × 29.7 cm ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2 doi:10.2865/69193 WHERE DO I Get EU PUBLICATIONS? Free publications: • via the EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu); • at the European Union's representations and delegations.
QJ-AA-13-001-EN-C European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG eca-info@eca.europa.eu http://eca.europa.eu @EUAuditorsECA EUAuditorsECA ISBN 978-92-9241-157-2
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS DE 2014 Activity Report
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 E-mail: eca-info@eca.europa.eu Internet: http://eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorsECA Youtube: EUAuditorsECA A great deal of additional information on the European Union is available on the Internet.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2015 Print ISBN 978-92-872-2134-6 ISSN 1684-0666 doi:10.2865/062938 QJ-AA-15-001-EN-C PDF ISBN 978-92-872-2130-8 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/751281 QJ-AA-15-001-EN-N EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-213-0 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/14686 QJ-AA-15-001-EN-E © European Union, 2015 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged. Printed in Luxembourg
In memory of our colleague Henrik Otbo, member of the Court, who unexpectedly died on 1 February 2015, Henrik Otbo was born in 1949 and had Danish nationality.
From 1995 to 2012, he was President of the Danish Court of Auditors and since 1 March 2012 Member of the European Court of Auditors in the CEAD Chamber (coordination, evaluation, quality assurance and development) with special responsibility for audit development and evaluation.
His lifelong commitment to public financial control, in particular his leading role in the creation of International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions as Chairman of the INTOSAI Committee for Technical Standards, was particularly valuable to the Court, his former colleagues to the Danish Court of Auditors and the entire audit sector.
01 European Court of Auditors 02 Mission The European Court of Auditors is responsible for the audit of EU finances under the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, it contributes to improving EU financial management, promotes accountability and transparency and acts as independent guardian of the financial interests of the Union's citizens.
Mission Statement An independent and dynamic Court of Auditors, distinguished by its integrity and impartiality, recognised for its professionalism, quality and impact, and providing valuable support to its audience to improve EU financial management.
Values Independence, integrity and impartiality Professionalism Added value Excellence and efficiency Independence, integrity and impartiality of the institution, its members and its employees.
Unbiased examination, which takes into account the views of the Court's addressee group, but rejects any form of influence by means of instructions or external pressure.
Maintaining an exemplary level of professionality in all aspects of his work.
Active participation in the further development of public financial control at EU and worldwide level.
To produce relevant, timely, high-quality reports based on sound findings and evidence, to take account of the needs of its staff and to include important and indicative statements.
To contribute to an effective improvement of the EU financial management and to strengthening the accountability of EU financial management.
Promote team spirit through effective communication.
Content 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4-5 President's Preface 6 2014 at a glance 6 Our Activities 6 Our Management 7-43 Our Activities 7-36 Audit Reports and Other Products 37-38 Relations with Addressees 39-41 Cooperation with Other Supreme Audit Institutions 42-43 Key Events 44-50 Our Management 44-46 The College of the Court 47-50 Measuring Court Performance 51-59 Support for Audit Activities 51-54 Personnel Resources 55-56 Support Services 57-58 Financial Information 59 Audit and Accountancy 60 Statement by the Authorising Officer by delegation
Foreword by President 04 Dear reader, 2014 was a year of profound change for the EU and its finances.
The EU entrusted the European Central Bank with the responsibility for oversight of the large banks in the euro area.
It was the first year of the new multiannual financial framework, which was relevant for the implementation of the EU budget for the period 2014-2020.
The new election of the members of the European Parliament and the replacement of the top positions in the Council and the European Commission were also of particular importance. The European Court of Auditors (ECA) also welcomed six new members.
In 2014, our institution produced 91 reports, opinions and other products – more than ever before.
They are the result of our audits of accounting, compliance and economic efficiency audits, including those that fall within the scope of our new responsibilities in financial and economic governance.
They contain many important findings, conclusions and recommendations on improving the financial management and accountability of the EU in the 2014-2020 programming period.
Some of its key messages are set out in this annual activity report.
We also aim to provide our audience with the most comprehensive possible knowledge of the main challenges facing the EU in the financing and implementation of its policies, based on our audit experience.
To this end – and as a contribution to this time of incisive innovation – we introduced a new product in 2014, the so-called "Landscape-Analysis".
In addition, at the request of the European Parliament, we have published an overview of the results of our audits of the accounts and compliance procedures in the areas of agricultural and cohesion expenditure for the period 2009-2013.
The Court also works with its audience to ensure that the recipients can make the most of the results of its work.
Among other things, the Court appointed a member and a spokesman for institutional relations in 2014.
It also organised several events to provide a forum for exchanges with high-level stakeholders from the EU and the Member States.
The conference brought together a large number of people responsible for managing and controlling EU funds, including Members of the European Parliament, the European Commission, Supreme Audit Institutions and representatives of science.
The Vice-President of the European Parliament and former EU Commissioner Olli Rehn gave an introductory speech.
The visit of a delegation of Court members to Lithuania, where meetings were held with Members of Parliament, members of the government and representatives of the national Court of Auditors and the Lithuanian Central Bank, is also particularly noteworthy.
President's Preface 05 Throughout the year, our 2013-2017 strategy has been groundbreaking for our work and the measures taken to reform our institution.
In 2014, we shortened the average time needed to produce our special reports and reduced the number of our staff, as required by an interinstitutional agreement.
We also set the fundamen for future efficiency and effectiveness gains by launching an internal reform project.
This project coordinates the implementation of the recommendations of internal working groups and the recommendations of the independent external peer review on the practice of our economic audit and the European Parliament's report on the future role of the Court.
The Court is based in Luxembourg, but our test teams travel wherever EU funds are spent as part of their work to obtain audit certificates.
This activity report provides an overview of the audit visits and the reports we have produced.
A special highlight will be given to our examination of EU support for European airport infrastructure.
It is a clear example of our economic impact assessments to assess the impact and added value of EU funding and highlights the efforts the Court has made to fulfil its mandate.
This examination also demonstrates the commitment and professionalism of the Court's staff, whose expertise and commitment the Court and its citizens are always able to rely on.
Vítor Manuel da Silva Caldeira President
2014 at a glance 06 Our activities • Annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds for the financial year 2013. • 51 special annual reports on various EU agencies, decentralised bodies and joint enterprises for the financial year 2013 and two summary reports. • 24 special reports on certain budgetary or management issues ranging from European banking supervision to EU-funded airport infrastructures. • 7 opinions and other statements with contributions to financial management issues, from the reform of the EU's own resources system to an investigation into possible savings by pooling the European Parliament's activities in a single place. • Two landscape analyses: one on the challenges of accountability and public financial control in the EU and another on the risks to EU financial management. • Organising a high-level conference on accountability and public financial control in the EU. • Focusing the meeting of the Presidents of the Court of Auditors's contact committee on strengthening the EU's financial management. • Organising a high-level conference on accountability and control in the EU. • Focusing on the cooperation between the EU's Member States' institutions and the Court of Auditors' contact committee on the strengthening of the EU's financial regulation.
Our management • The court welcomed six new members in 2014: Alex Brenninkmeijer, Danièle Lamarque, Nikolaos Milionis, Phil Wynn Owen, Klaus‐Heiner Lehne and Oskar Herics.
The College of Members elected by Vítor Caldeira for a third three-year period again as President of the Court and appointed Ville Itälä as the member responsible for institutional relations. • The Court's 2013-2017 strategy provided impetus for changes in the organisation: the Court introduced an internal reform project aimed at streamlining the audit process and ensuring a more flexible organisation of resources. • Further improvement of administrative efficiency, based on procedural simplifications and the transfer of staff working in support services to audit activities.
An action plan on equal opportunities has also been implemented.
Court building in Luxembourg.
Our activities 07 Audit reports and other products The three main products of the European Court of Auditors are: • Annual reports – with the results of its audits of the accounts and compliance audits of the European Union budget and the European Development Funds (EDF).
In addition, special annual reports on the agencies, decentralised bodies and Joint Undertakings of the EU are published separately. • Special reports – which can be published at any time during the year, with the results of its selected audits on specific budgetary areas or management issues.
These are essentially economic audits. • Opinions – on new or amended acts affecting the financial sector and other analytical products, either at the request of another institution or at the Court's own initiative.
In 2014, the farm produced more products than ever before and also presented new products.
The annual accounts are still provided with a large number of analytical information, and they also provide a comprehensive presentation of the results of our annual audits of accounting and compliance audits.
In 2014, a stronger focus was placed on economic audits, so that additional information on the quality of the implementation of the EU budget plan was made available to the EU budgetary authority.
In addition to the annual reports, we published for the first time a summary of our audit results on agricultural and cohesion expenditure under shared management during the period 2009-2013, in order to provide a multiannual perspective.
The other important development was a new product called Landscape Analysis.
In landscape ana-lysis, information and analyses on key issues are presented on the basis of our expertise in the audit area.
In 2014, we published two Landscape analyses: the first focuses on the main challenges facing the EU in terms of accountability and public financial control; the second focuses on the risks to EU financial management.
2012 2013 2014 Annual reports (EU general budget and EDF) 2 2 2 Special annual reports on EU agencies and decentralised bodies 50 50 51 Special reports 25 19 24 Opinions and other statements 10 6 14 Total 87 77 91 The full version of each audit report, opinion and landscape analysis is available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu) in 23 EU official languages.
Our activities 08 audit visits in 2014 While most of the audit work is carried out at our premises in Luxembourg, our auditors also carry out audit visits to Member States' authorities, other recipients of EU funds (including at the headquarters of international organisations such as the World Health Organisation in Switzerland) and to EU agencies and bodies.
The purpose of these visits is to obtain direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the authorisation, management and payment of EU funds, as well as from the respective final recipients.
Our audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors, and the duration of a test visit is up to two weeks, depending on the type of test and the distance.
Within the EU, our audit visits are often carried out in coordination with the Supreme Audit Authorities of the Member States visited.
The frequency and intensity of the audit work in the individual Member States and beneficiary countries depend on the type of audit and the results of the sample selection.
The number and duration of the verification visits may therefore vary by country and year.
In 2014, the Court's auditors spent 4 915 days on-the-spot audits in Member States and outside the EU, and obtained audit evidence for the annual reports and the selected audit tasks (son-the-reports).
They also spent some time with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralised agencies and bodies throughout the EU.
In 2014, our auditors used fewer days on-site than in previous years.
This is due to more efficient working methods and an increasing use of technologies such as videoconferencing.
EU inspectors used EU inspectors to test maritime freight installations.
4 915 days on-site checks
Our activities 09 days on site in 2014 Italy Poland Germany Spain France United Kingdom Portugal Greece Romania Czech Republic Lithuania Austria Sweden Hungary Netherlands Slovakia Denmark Latvia Bulgaria Belgium Finland Ireland Croatia Slovenia Estonia Malta Cyprus Luxembourg Rwanda India Norway United States Algeria Cambodia Morocco Seychelles South Africa Switzerland Zambia Côte d'Ivoire Mozambique Democratic Republic of the Congo Fiji Thailand Belize Tunisia Colombia Georgia Indonesia Lesotho Nigeria Serbia Cameroon Mauritania Afghanistan Israel Senegal Tanzania Madagascar Turkey 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
Our activities 10 Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013 The Court devoted most of its audits to the accounting and compliance audits during 2014 to the implementation of the EU budget for 2013.
The 2013 Annual Report, which was published on 5 November 2014, presented to our audience, including the European Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the EU (Economy and Finance), national parliaments and governments, and the media.
The aim of the annual report is to help the European Parliament, the Council and citizens to assess the quality of EU financial management by presenting findings and conclusions.
The core element of the 2013 annual report is the 20th annual statement of assurance (DAS) on the reliability of the EU accounts and the regularity of the underlying transactions.
That report provided more information on the efficiency of EU expenditure and on the Commission's performance reporting.
Estimated error rate for the EU budget: 4.7% President Caldeira at the handing over of the annual report for the financial year 2013 to the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz.
Our activities 11 The key statements of the 2013 Annual Report ο The Court has issued an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts of the European Union for 2013.
The 2013 revenue was overall legal and proper, including commitments. ο Payments for 2013 were substantially affected by errors.
The Court has therefore given a failed opinion on its legality and regularity.
This figure is close to the 2012 error rate (4.8%) and consistently above the 2 % materiality threshold. ο The two spending areas were most wrongly regional policy, transport and energy with an estimated error rate of 6.9% and rural development, environment, fisheries and health with an estimated error rate of 6.7%.
In the case of shared management as a whole, the estimated error rate was 5.2%. ο Overall, the monitoring and control systems examined ensured that payments were made in a conditional manner, with significant differences between Member States.
As in 2012, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors in a large part of the error-related operations in the areas of shared management before the Commission was requested to refund them. ο Corrective measures and recoveries by the Member States' authorities and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Without these measures, the estimated overall rate of loss would have been 6.3 %. ο In the period 2007-2013, the use of EU funds was driven by absorption (use it or lose it – non-use lapse) and compliance with legislation and not good performance.
This lack of focus on performance is a crucial weakness in the way a large part of the EU budget is built.
Our activities 12 Examination of transactions in the various EU expenditure areas – Results for 2013 Amount verified and most likely error rate 6.9% 3.6% 3.1% 6.7% 4.6% 2.6% Agriculture: market support and direct payments Audit conclusion Regional policy, transport and energy Employment and social rural development, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 1.0% Essentially error-related Not significantly error-related 0 10bn € 20bn € 30bn € 40bn € 50bn € Probable error rate (estimated error rate based on quantifiable errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) Table from the short information for the audit of the EU 2013; available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
Our activities 13 Agriculture and Cohesion: Overview of EU expenditure for the period 2007-2013 In parallel with the annual reports, the Court published a background document for the first time – in 23 official languages of the EU – to provide a multiannual perspective on the underlying findings of the Statement of Assurance in the two main areas of expenditure on agriculture and cohesion.
It drew lessons on issues encountered in EU financial management and control over the past period of expenditure, summarised audit results and identified challenges related to the new 2014-2020 period.
In addition, the survey reflected the European Parliament's wish to obtain country-specific information on shared management. Key messages: ο Except for direct aid and market support measures for farmers in the agricultural sector, the pressure to use funds is a key aspect of the risk of shared management expenditure. ο The main risks to the regularity of agricultural expenditure are that the areas or animals or the costs on which the aid payments are based are not eligible, that the beneficiaries of aid do not meet the conditions for this and that the aid is not calculated correctly.
Infringements of agri-environmental requirements, specific requirements for investment projects and procurement rules are important factors that increase the risk of rural development expenditure. ο The greatest risk of cohesion expenditure is breach of EU and/or national public procurement rules.
The second biggest risk is that expenditure (or projects) is not eligible for EU funding. ο Although there is a considerable need for improvement in control systems, the main challenge is to take action to simplify the management of programmes.
The Court notes errors in all EU Member States.
Many errors have occurred due to the complexity of the overall architecture for management and control. ο Despite improvements in reporting on risks and errors by Member State authorities, it remains very difficult for the Commission to ensure the reliability of this information. ο The changes in the regulations for the new programming period may not have a significant impact on the level of risk.
Our activities 14 Annual Report on the European Development Funds for 2013 The European Development Funds (EDF) are financed by EU Member States, subject to their own financial regulation and managed outside the EU's general budget.
The European Commission is responsible for the financial management of operations financed from EDF resources.
Under the EDF, the European Union grants development cooperation funds to African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and overseas countries and territories (OCTs) under the Cotonou 2000 Agreement.
Expenditure is aimed at reducing poverty and ultimately defeating it, in line with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the ACP States and OCTs into the world economy.
The agreement is based on three complementary pillars: development cooperation, economic and trade cooperation and the political dimension.
The Court's 2013 annual report on the EDF was published in paral‐l on the Annual Report on the EU budget on 5 November 2014.
It contains the 20th Statement of Assurance on EDFs.
The Court noted that the 2013 financial statements are appropriate to the financial and financial situation of the EDFs, the results of their operations and cash flows and the changes in net assets as a whole.
The Court estimated the error rate in EDF expenditure operations for the financial year 2013 to be 3.4 %, which is an increase compared to 2012.
Special annual reports on the financial year 2013 In 2014, the Court produced and published 51 special annual reports on the financial year 2013.
The reports covered 41 decentralised bodies, executive agencies and other EU bodies, the seven EU Joint Undertakings in the field of research, as well as the European Central Bank, European Schools and Sisnet communication infrastructure.
The Court also published two summaries of the results of its annual audits for the financial year 2013 – one on EU agencies and other bodies, the second on research-related companies.
These two analytical and comparative summaries were submitted to the President of the European Parliament, the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control, the General Affairs Council and the Council's Committee on Budgets.
Together with the special annual reports, these summaries are available on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
EU agencies, bodies and joint ventures are established on the basis of EU legislation to carry out specific tasks, and their seats are located throughout the European Union.
They are active in a number of areas, such as security, health, research, finance, migration and travel.
They all have a mandate, a board of directors, a director, staff and a budget.
While the agencies, bodies and Joint Undertakings, in relation to the EU budget as a whole, are at relatively low financial risk, the Union's reputation risk is high, as it is clearly visible in the Member States and has a significant impact on policy design, decision-making and programme implementation in areas of major importance to European citizens.
51 special annual reports during the year
Our activities 15 The Court gave the 41 agencies and other entities full audit opinions on the reliability of the 2013 accounts.
The underlying transactions were legal and orderly for all agencies and other bodies except for two in all essential respects. e Court issued limited audit opinions for the EIT (European Institute of Innovation and Technology) and Frontex (European Agency for Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union).
In addition, the 2013 accounts were reliable for all seven Joint Undertakings, but the Court gave a limited audit opinion for three Joint Undertakings in respect of the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying their annual accounts: Artemis (embedded ICT systems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and IMI (Innovative Medicines Initiative).
With regard to the European Schools, the Court was unable to conclude whether the consolidated annual accounts for 2013 were free from material misrepresentations, as the schools still lack accounting and control.
The Court examined the way the European Central Bank handled its carbon footprint and noted that, while the Bank has taken measures to reduce the negative impact of its management on the environment, further efforts and measures are needed.
Special reports adopted in 2014 In addition to its annual reports and special annual reports, the Court publishes special reports throughout the year, containing the results of its economic and compliance audits on specific budgetary areas or management issues of its choice.
In selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court is committed to achieving maximum impact and thus making the best use of its resources.
In selecting the topics, the Court takes into account the following factors: • the risks of irregularity or reduced economic efficiency in the expenditure or policy area; • the potential to achieve added value in the course of an audit by the Court; • the political and public interest. 24 special reports in 2014
Our Activities 16 The main stages of a selected audit audit on-the-spot audit Preparation of the report Coordination of the report Adoption Publication Determination of the expeditability and feasibility of a proposed audit; definition of the scope, objectives, approach, methods and timing of the audit Multi-disciplinary teams shall carry together audit evidence on-the-spot in the Commission's central services and in Member States and recipient countries Clear, structured presentation of the main findings and conclusions; preparation of recommendations Confirmation of facts and findings by the audited bodies Adoption of the report by the audit chamber or the entire Court College Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the audited body's response The following pages briefly present the topics of the 24 special reports prepared by the Court in 2014, each of which is under the relevant headings of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, the EU's multiannual budget.
Our activities 17 Smart and inclusive growth Smart and inclusive growth covers two areas: competitiveness for growth and jobs includes funds for research and innovation, education and training, trans-European energy, transport and telecommunications networks, social policy, business development, etc. The EU's funding for growth and jobs for the period 2014-2020 is EUR 142 billion at current prices and 13% of the EU budget as a whole.
Economic, social and territorial cohesion includes regional policy, which aims to help the most developed countries and regions of the EU to follow the rest, strengthening the competitiveness of all regions and developing cooperation between them.
The EU cohesion budget for 2014-2020 amounts to EUR 367 billion at current prices, or 34% of the total EU budget.
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • Effectiveness of EU-funded projects in the field of public transport (No 1/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed the implementation and effectiveness of projects in the field of public transport co-financed by EU Structural Funds to determine whether the projects met users' needs and achieved their objectives.
The audit showed that two thirds of the local transport projects co-financed by EU Structural Funds were insufficiently used.
This development was primarily caused by weaknesses in project design and inadequate mobility policies.
However, this inadequacy has generally not been pursued by the promoters or national authorities.
Infrastructure and vehicles have usually been established for most projects in line with project specifications.
Significant delays and cost overruns were noted, but after completion almost all the projects examined were in line with users' needs.
European cities need to improve mobility and reduce congestion, accidents and pollution through local mobility strategies.
The co-financed projects helped cities to establish urban transport systems such as metros, trams and buses.
Trams and buses are important means of transport for public transport.
Our activities 18 • Did the funds from Cohesion Policy funds help to promote renewable energy production achieve good results?
(No 6/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether the two main sources of funding for renewable energy – the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF) – had achieved good results, and examined whether the funds had been allocated appropriately prioritised, cost-effective and mature renewable energy production projects during this period, with the aim of achieving meaningful objectives and to what extent these funds have achieved good results that have contributed to the achievement of the EU 2020 renewable energy target.
The audit found that improvements were needed to ensure that EU funding made the greatest possible contribution to achieving the objective.
The projects examined provided the outputs as planned and most of the projects were sufficiently mature and ready to be implemented at the time of their selection.
There were no significant cost overruns or major delays and renewable energy generation capacity was installed as planned and was operational as planned.
However, the results on energy production have not always been achieved or measured properly.
Overall, the use of funds was only limited in efficiency, as cost-effectiveness in planning and implementing projects was not the guiding principle and expenditure had a limited EU added value.
The EU Council has set a binding EU target of 20% for the share of renewable energy in gross final energy consumption by 2020.
For renewable energy, some 4.7 million euros were made available from the ERDF and the CF during the period 2007-2013. • Has the ERDF been successful in supporting the development of incubators?
(No 7/2014) – In this special report, the Court analysed whether the incubators co-financed by the ERDF had successfully supported start-up companies with great growth potential.
The audit found that the EU has made a significant financial contribution to the creation of incubators' infrastructure, particularly in Member States where this type of business support is relatively rare.
However, the performance of the incubators tested left much to be desired.
The provision of start-up services was rather limited due to financial constraints and the small scale of start-up activities.
This situation was mainly due to a lack of expertise in start-up support procedures and poor management systems.
Incubators pursue the goal of supporting new companies in their successful establishment and further development.
Support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) has become an increasingly political priority over time.
EU expenditure in this area amounted to EUR 38 billion in the period 2007-2013.
The building "Delta" co-financed by the ERDF in the Wrocław Technology Park.
Our activities 19 • Is the ERDF effective in financing projects directly promoting biodiversity under the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2020?
(No 12/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether the ERDF funding available for direct support to biodiversity has been used by Member States.
The audit showed that Member States are lagging behind in the use of ERDF funding to finance projects compared to other ERDF spending areas.
In order to continue to be useful for the ERDF in implementing the EU biodiversity reduction strategy by 2020, the Commission should strengthen its support to Member States in implementing specific conservation and management plans for natural habitats and species.
The co-financed projects were generally in line with the biodiversity priorities set at national and EU level.
However, the assessment of the effectiveness of these projects was hampered by the fact that most Member States did not provide results indicators or monitoring systems to assess the development of natural habitats and species.
The protection of biodiversity is one of the EU's main priorities.
Following the failure of the previous target of halting the loss of biodiversity in Europe by 2010, the Council approved a new strategy for 2020. Direct support for biodiversity and nature conservation was allocated EUR 2.8 billion to ERDF funds in the 2007-2013 programming period. • Was ERDF support for SMEs in the field of e-commerce effective?
(No 20/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether operational programmes provided a good basis for effective support for e-commerce actions for SMEs, whether managing authorities properly selected and monitored e-commerce projects and whether the e-commerce projects co-financed by the ERDF have been successfully implemented and have provided measurable benefits.
The Court noted that ERDF support for SMEs in the field of e-commerce – purchasing and selling goods via the Internet – helped to increase the online availability of business services.
However, the lack of monitoring was not such as to assess the extent to which ERDF support has contributed to the achievement of the IT objectives of the Member States and the EU.
Insufficient selection procedures by Member States mean that a good cost-benefit ratio is unlikely to be achieved in many projects.
Programme managers focused more on the use of resources (outputs) than on achieving results.
The Commission is supporting e-commerce through its Digi-tal Agenda for Europe. Under the ERDF budget, EUR 3 billion of EU funding was allocated to improve the use of ICT by SMEs in the period 2007-2013. Court video on Special Report 20/2014 "Is the ERDF effective in financing projects directly promoting biodiversity in the EU Biodiversity Strategy for 2020?
Our activities 20 Close-up of an economic assessment: EU-funded airport infrastructures – insufficient cost-benefit ratio (No. 21/2014) Closed part of the oversized terminal at Fuerteventura Airport.
Although EU aviation policy aims to overcome capacity problems by building additional infrastructure, improving the use of existing structures, optimising airport services and improving the link with other modes of transport, Europe will not be able to meet much of this demand because of the lack of runways and ground infrastructure.
In Europe, there are more than 500 airports where one million people are employed directly or indirectly, and which together with the airlines contribute more than 140 billion euros to European economic performance.
Airport-related infrastructure projects are a major area of expenditure for the EU budget: projects of this nature were allocated around EUR 4.5 billion to the EU in the 2000-2013 programming periods, of which more than EUR 2.8 billion was allocated from the Cohesion Policy Funds.
In its economic assessment of this support, the Court examined whether the investment was clearly needed, whether the time and cost frameworks for the construction projects were respected and whether the newly built or modernised infrastructure was fully used.
The Court assessed whether the investments led to higher passenger numbers and improved customer service and whether the airports supported were financially viable.
The auditors carried out their work between May 2013 and October 2014, with a focus on 20 EU-funded airports in Estonia, Greece, Italy, Poland and Spain.
In total, EU funds of more than EUR 600 million were allocated to these airports in the period 2000-2013.
The team carried out an audit of relevant legislation, air traffic planning in the five Member States and publications of the main interbranch organisations.
In particular, the auditors visited the 20 airports to assess and provide direct evidence of the outputs, uses, results and impacts of EU funds and the economic situation of the airports.
The Court concluded that the cost-benefit ratio of EU-funded investments for airports was not right.
Too many airports, often close together, received financial support for similar infrastructures, and in many cases it was found that these infrastructures were oversized.
Only half of the airports examined managed to increase their passenger numbers.
Improvements in customer service or regional socio-economic benefits such as the creation of additional jobs were neither measured nor evidence was available.
The investigation also showed that seven airports were not financially self-supporting and would have difficulties in operating without further public support.
At most of the airports audited, the audit team found significant delays in the construction and provision of infrastructure.
Almost half of airports exceeded costs, so that Member States had to contribute almost 100 million euros more from their national budgets than originally planned.
Our activities 21 The financing was not well coordinated by the Member States: in most countries there was no strategic long-term airport development plan.
The Commission has also been insufficiently monitoring the financing, which is generally unknown as to which airports receive funding or what amounts are involved.
This does not provide a complete picture of all EU airport investment and has limited possibilities to monitor and ensure that strategies are properly designed and implemented.
On the basis of these findings, the Court recommended that the Commission should ensure from the 2014-2020 programming period that Member States only use EU funds for airport infrastructure that is financially viable and whose investment needs have been adequately assessed and demonstrated.
Another recommendation was that Member States should have coherent plans for airport expansion at regional, national and supranational level to avoid overcapacity, duplication and uncoordinated investment in airport infrastructure.
In its reply, the Commission has assured us that lessons have been learned from these experiences.
As a result, it has ensured that a fundamentally different approach is applied in the relevant legislation for the 2014-2020 programming period.
The report was presented to the European Parliament, which fully supports the Court's conclusions and recommendations.
The publication of the report was of great media interest.
The media reaction was the largest in Spain, but also included headlines in major international newspapers, television coverage and social media.
From left to right: Afonso de Castro Malheiro, Jasmine Mitterbuchner, Patrick Weldon, Mircea Radulescu, Pietro Puricella, Joël Costantzer, George Pufan (member of the Court responsible for the report), Fernando Pascual Gil, Luc T'Joen, Tomasz Plebanowicz, Lorenzo Pirelli, Efstratios Varetidis, Jelena Magermane, Erki Must.
Our activities 22 Sustainable growth: natural resources The EU has a high political responsibility in the fields of agriculture and rural development, fisheries and the environment.
The planned budget for 2014-2020 amounts to EUR 420 billion at current prices, or 39% of the EU budget as a whole.
Three quarters of the expenditure relates to direct payments to farmers and support to agricultural markets through the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) – the ‘first pillar' of the common agricultural policy (CAP).
Another fifth of the expenditure is EU support for rural development financed by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the "second pillar of the CAP".
Agriculture and rural development are subject to shared management by the Commission and the Member States.
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • Integration of the objectives of EU water policy into the CAP: a partial success (No 4/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the objectives of EU water policy were successfully integrated into the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP).
The audit showed that the EU can only achieve partial success in integrating the objectives of water policy into the CAP.
The two instruments for integrating water-related issues (cross compliance and rural development) have shortcomings and the implementation of the Water Framework Directive is characterised by delays and weaknesses.
The CAP instruments have so far had a positive impact on supporting the policy objectives of improving water quantity and quality.
However, these instruments are limited compared to the ambitious objectives of the CAP.
For example, neither of these two instruments allows the full application of the polluter pays principle in the allocation of CAP funds.
Furthermore, the burden on water resources from agricultural activities is not sufficiently known at EU institutions and Member States level and the developments that are taking place in these sectors.
The EU gives high priority to protecting European water resources.
Agriculture, one of the largest consumers and polluters of water resources, plays a key role in sustainable water management.
The CAP is the source of almost 40% of EU budget (over EUR 50 billion in 2014) and the EU is working under the CAP to influence the agricultural practices that affect water resources.
Our activities 23 • Has the Commission managed effectively the integration of coupled support into the single payment scheme?
(No 8/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed how well the Commission managed, after the CAP health check carried out in 2008, to include EU support linked to production volumes (e.g. farmed areas or livestock numbers) in the single payment scheme.
The audit showed that the Commission did not adequately monitor during the period 2010-2012 how Member States calculated farmers' entitlements to EU support payments for agricultural holdings under the farm payment scheme.
While most Member States had used the reference data of farmers correctly, there were serious deficiencies in the correct application of the calculation rules and principles.
The Commission did not use its mandate to ensure that the criteria for allocating available support were always in line with EU principles, that they complied with the principle of sound budgetary management and that they had no potential impact on market conditions.
The Commission's framework did not provide sufficient clarity as to which controls Member States should carry out and the Member States' control systems were of varying quality.The main objective of the single payment scheme was to shift the CAP's focus from market support to decoupled income support for farmers: farm owners should be able to adapt their production to market demand and their income should be stabilised.
The single payment scheme, which has been introduced in 18 Member States to date, accounts for 54% of the total EU budget for agriculture and rural development. • Is EU support for investment and promotion in the wine sector well managed and is there evidence of results in terms of the competitiveness of EU wines?
(No 9/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether investment and promotion measures were adequately designed and examined the available monitoring and evaluation data to assess whether the Commission and the Member States achieved the desired results in an efficient manner.
The audit found that the management of support for investment and promotion in the wine sector was hampered by design and implementation deficiencies and that the impact on the competitiveness of EU wines could not always be demonstrated.
The specific investment measure for the wine sector is not justified, as support is already provided under EU rural development policy.
EU support for wine promotion has often been used to consolidate existing markets rather than to develop new or reclaim old markets.
The impact of the investment measure cannot easily be separated from the investment in rural development.
The EU is the world's largest wine producer.
EU support should improve competitiveness and ensure a better balance between supply and demand.
Member States spent EUR 522 million on the promotion measure and EUR 518 million on the investment measure during the period 2009-2013.
For 2014-2018, the resources allocated to Member States under this measure have increased significantly.
Our activities 24 • Effectiveness of support for aquaculture provided by the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) (No 10/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the measures to support aquaculture at EU and Member State level were well designed and adequately implemented and whether the EFF was a reasonable cost-benefit ratio and supported the sustainable development of aquaculture.
The audit showed that the measures to support aquaculture by 2013 were not well designed and implemented at EU and Member State level, that the EFF did not provide an adequate cost-benefit ratio and that the sustainable development of aquaculture was not supported effectively.
The current framework was not suitable for implementing the EU's objectives for sustainable development of aquaculture in concrete terms and the results were not sufficient.
The measures to support the sustainable development of aquaculture in the Member States were not well designed and implemented.
The national strategic plans and operational programmes of the Member States were not sufficiently clear and the Member States had no coherent strategy for the sector.
The EFF funding has often not been sufficiently targeted for aquaculture projects and the audit showed that these projects generally did not deliver the planned results or a good cost-benefit ratio.
Each year, around 1.3 million tonnes of fish are produced by aquaculture in the EU, with sales of 4 billion euros.
One of the objectives of the Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) for the period up to 2013 was to promote the sustainable development of aquaculture.
By May 2013, the EFF provided more than EUR 400 million to finance measures to promote productive investment and environmental and health policies in the aquaculture sector. • Economic efficiency: keeping control over the costs of EU-funded rural development aid (No 22/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether the approaches adopted by the Commission and Member States were the most effective to control the costs of rural development aid.
The audit showed that EU Member States could achieve significant savings in aid to rural development projects while at the same time making it possible to use them more efficiently.
The auditors identified practical and cost-effective approaches that could be more widely applied to Member States' control of the costs of rural development aid.
The control systems of the Member States were aimed at checking the prices of goods or works listed in the aid applications without equal consideration being given to the question of whether the goods themselves were appropriate.
Some price controls were time consuming or provided little certainty that the approved costs were reasonable.
At the beginning of the programming period, the Commission did not provide sufficient guidance or ensure the dissemination of recommended procedures.
It did not ensure that the Member States' systems were effective, and that they had been granted a large amount of aid.
Around half of the total EU rural development expenditure for 2007-2013, amounting to EUR 100 billion, has been implemented in the form of grants to cover the costs of investment projects and other projects carried out by farmers, agricultural enterprises, associations and local authorities.
Our activities 25 • Errors in rural development expenditure: what are the causes and what is being done to eliminate them?
(No 23/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined compliance with the applicable laws and other legislation in the implementation of rural development and described the main causes of the high error rate in this area.
The audit found that most of the errors in rural development policy were due to non-compliance with conditions established at Member State level.
The control authorities of the Member States could and should have detected and corrected most of the errors in investment measures in the field of rural development.
Member States' control systems are inadequate, as controls are not comprehensive and are based on insufficient information.
The average error rate for rural development expenditure over the last three years was 8.2 %.
Errors in investment measures accounted for two thirds of the error rate, and area-related aid accounted for one third.
Only 16% of the error rate was due to non-compliance with provisions directly contained in EU regulations, while the largest share of the burden ratio – 84% – was due to non-compliance with conditions established at Member State level.
The EU and Member States allocated over EUR 150 billion for rural development policy in the 2007-2013 programming period, which was almost equally used for investment and land-based aid.
These expenditures are particularly flawed. • Are EU aid for preventing and remedying forest damage caused by fires and natural disasters well managed?
(No 24/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the support measure of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) for the reconstruction of forestry potential and the implementation of preventive actions (measure 226) was well managed and whether the Commission and the Member States could demonstrate that the objectives of the aid were achieved in a cost-effective manner.
The audit showed that the EU's funding for preventing forest fires and restoring forests damaged by natural disasters and fires was not well managed.
The Commission and the Member States cannot prove that the results of the financial resources have been achieved in a cost-effective way.
In the last 30 years, on average, 480 000 hectares of forest have been destroyed annually in the EU by fires.
Preventive actions accounted for more than 80% of EU funding of 1.5 billion euros for the period 2007-2013.
Our activities 26 Security and Citizenship This policy area has been established to ensure the free movement of persons and to provide citizens with a high level of protection.
It covers the management of the EU's external borders, judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, and includes asylum and immigration policies, police cooperation and the fight against crime.
Expenditure in this area for the period 2014-2020 is expected to be 18 million euro or less than 2% of the total budget.
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • Findings from the development of the second generation of information system (SIS II) by the European Commission (No 3/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined why the Commission provided SIS II more than six years later than planned and incurred eight times more costs than originally estimated.
The assessment was carried out to determine whether a viable business case for SIS II was available throughout the project, taking into account major changes in costs and expected benefits.
The audit found that the delays and excessive costs were due to weaknesses in management by the Commission.
The initial deadline was unrealistic and the Commission was unable to manage effectively the main task for development before 2009.
The initial cost estimates have underestimated the actual level of investment required.
The total cost of SIS II was EUR 189 million, which was originally estimated at EUR 23 million.
The Commission did not fully demonstrate that SIS II provided it with the best cost-benefit ratio.
However, it has gained lessons from its experience during the first phase of the project and has already used some of these knowledge for other large-scale IT projects.
The Schengen Information System is used by border protection, police, customs, visa and judicial authorities throughout the Schengen area.
It contains information (an alert) on persons who may have been involved in a serious crime or who do not have the right to enter or reside in the EU.
It also includes calls for tenders for missing persons and lost or stolen property. • The External Borders Fund contributed to more financial solidarity, but the outcome measurement needs to be improved and additional EU added value created (No 15/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed the effectiveness and EU added value of the External Borders Fund and highlighted the extent to which the objectives of the co-funded projects and programmes were achieved.
The audit showed that the External Borders Fund has contributed to the management of the external borders of the EU and to increased financial solidarity between Member States.
However, its additional EU added value was limited and the overall results could not be measured due to weaknesses in the monitoring by the competent authorities and serious shortcomings in the evaluations at Commission and Member State level.
Member States' programmes were not embedded in national border control and visa policies and did not contain SMART objectives or measurable indicators.
The project selection procedures did not ensure that the actual needs of the Member States were met.
Unfinished procurement procedures in Member States pose a risk to the sound management of the budget.
In the Member States which were mainly affected (Greece, Spain, Italy and Malta in the first years of support), there were serious weaknesses in the management of the Fund.
The EU's main financial instrument to support the management of external borders was the External Borders Fund, which was endowed with EUR 1.9 billion for the period 2007-2013.
Its overarching objective was to support current and future Schengen States in ensuring uniform, effective and efficient controls at their common external borders.
Our activities 27 Europe in the world The EU's external relations activities focus on: enlargement, the achievement of stability, security and prosperity in its neighbourhood, active support for sustainable development at international level, the promotion of global political governance and the safeguarding of strategic and civil security.
The EU has allocated €66 billion (current prices) for the period 2014-2020, or 6% of its planned total expenditure for these objectives.
Expenditure is managed by the Commission, mainly directly through its central services or delegations.
In 2014, the Court produced the following special reports in this area: • The establishment of the European External Action Service (EEAS) (No 11/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether the establishment of the EEAS was adequately prepared, whether its resources were efficiently prioritised, organised and allocated, and whether it had effectively coordinated with the Commission and the Member States.
The audit found that the EEAS should increase its efficiency and do more for the EU and its citizens.
The establishment of the EEAS was over-hasty and not well prepared.
Inefficiencies in prioritisation, organisation and allocation of resources reduced its efficiency.
Coordination between the EEAS and the Commission was only partially effective, mainly due to the lack of effective coordination mechanisms and a rigid financial and administrative framework at the level of delegation.
Coordination with Member States can be further developed to exploit synergies in the area of information exchange or joint accommodation and to improve consular services, including the protection of EU citizens.
The EEAS has its headquarters in Brussels and a global network of 140 delegations.
For 2014, the EEAS had a budget of EUR 519 million, divided between the Central Office (41%) and delegations (59%). • EU rehabilitation assistance following the Haiti earthquake (No 13/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether EU state aid for rehabilitation was well designed and adequately implemented, and whether the Commission ensured an adequate link between emergency aid and rehabilitation and development measures.
The audit found that the EU's rehabilitation assistance was well designed and focused on the country's urgent needs after the 2010 earthquake, but that the programmes were not implemented effectively enough and that emergency aid, rehabilitation and development were not sufficiently linked.
Most of the programmes audited were output or delivery in a scheduled manner, although delays occurred for almost all programmes.
While the Commission was aware of the difficult situation, it has not sufficiently taken account of some of the major risks that threatened the implementation and achievement of the programme objectives.
The programmes were monitored, but the Commission and the EEAS did not take timely action to increase the resources of the EU Delegation in Haiti.
In March 2010, 55 donors pledged $5.4 billion for 2010-2012 in support of rehabilitation and development and another $3.0 billion for 2013 and beyond.
The EU was one of the most important donors by offering a single amount of EUR 1.2 billion.
Our activities 28 • Effectiveness of combining financial aid from regional investment facilities with loans (mixed financing) granted by financial institutions to support EU foreign policy (No 16/2014) – This special report addressed the establishment and management of the investment facilities and examined whether mixed financing has achieved the benefits it seeks.
The audit was positive in the assessment of mixed financing, i.e. the combination of financial assistance from regional investment facilities with loans granted by financial institutions to support EU foreign policy in terms of structure and overall effectiveness, but the Court also points to some key issues that need to be addressed urgently.
While the facilities were well-structured, the potential benefits of the mixed financing were not fully realised due to shortcomings in the Commission's management of the facilities.
Almost half of the projects examined did not provide sufficient evidence that the grants were justified.
In some cases, investments would probably have been made without the EU contribution.
The Commission should ensure that the allocation of funds is based on a thorough, documented assessment of added value in terms of achieving the objectives of the EU's development, neighbourhood and enlargement policies.
Since 2007, the Commission has created eight regional investment facilities.
These combine financial assistance from the EDF and the EU's overall budget with loans mainly from European development finance institutions.
Mixed funding is usually intended to exploit investment opportunities in the form of large infrastructure projects that could be financially viable but for which insufficient resources cannot be mobilised in financial markets. • Can the EU initiative of centres of excellence contribute effectively to the containment of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) risks originating outside the EU?
(No 17/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the initiative was based on a sound analysis of the situation existing before 2010, whether the organisational structure of the initiative was appropriate to meet the identified challenges and whether there was an appropriate administrative system and whether it was applied.
The Court's assessment of the contribution of the Centres of Excellence to the reduction of CBRN risks has been generally positive.
The initiative is in line with the priorities set in the framework of the European Security Strategy and the EU Strategy against the Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction.
It provides for the involvement of all stakeholders in the partner countries to improve the sustainability of the measures taken.
The organisational structure is generally appropriate, but its complexity has contributed to the delay in the start of project activities.
The Excellence Centres initiative is designed to set up regional platforms in different regions of the world to counter CBRN risks.
It is the largest single measure of the long-term component of the Instrument for Stability and has been budgeted for the period 2010-2013 at EUR 100 million.
Our activities 29 • EuropeAid for evaluation and results oriented monitoring (ROM) systems (No 18/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether these systems are reliable, whether their structure and resource allocation are adequate, and whether they ensure that relevant and meaningful findings are made and that the findings are of maximum benefit.
The Court's audit has led to a critical assessment of the reliability of these systems.
The evaluation and performance-oriented monitoring bodies are well organised but more attention should be paid to the efficient use of resources.
The systems do not provide sufficient information on the results obtained and do not ensure that the findings are as useful as possible.
The evaluations of projects and programmes organised by the Commission delegations and carried out in partner countries are not managed satisfactorily: overall monitoring is not appropriate, there is uncertainty about the level of resources used and there is a lack of access to the results.
Two key elements of the European Commission's framework for the accountability of the Directorate-General for Development and Cooperation (EuropeAid) are their systems for evaluation and results-oriented monitoring.
The total annual cost of the systems is estimated at 34 to 38 million euros.
The annual development expenditure covered by these systems is estimated at around EUR 8 billion. • EU pre-accession assistance to Serbia (No 19/2014) – In this special report, the Court examined whether the Commission had effectively managed pre-accession assistance to Serbia during the period 2007-2013, with its support for the key area of governance assessed.
Together with other forms of support, the resources provided by the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) helped Serbia implement social and economic reforms and improve public financial management.
Based on its experience with other IPA beneficiary countries, the Commission is increasingly focusing on governance issues in the planning of financial and non-financial assistance to Serbia.
The Commission has effectively managed non-financial assistance to Serbia in the areas of governance and the fight against corruption.
As regards Serbia's preparations for the discreet management of EU funds, the Commission has also provided effective support, but only in the limited area of IPA administrative structures.
A quarter of the IPA funding for Serbia has been channelled into governance, which, according to the Commission, is the most challenging for Serbia.
The EU complements IPA funding with a number of non-financial resources to support Serbia in its preparation for EU membership.
Our activities 30 Administration The administrative expenditure of the EU institutions, agencies and other bodies includes expenditure on staff (contributions and pensions) as well as on buildings, equipment, energy, communication and information technology.
The planned budget for 2014-2020 is – at current prices – 70 million euro and 6% of the EU budget as a whole.
In 2014, the Court adopted the following special report: • How do EU institutions and bodies calculate, reduce and compensate for their greenhouse gas emissions?
(No 14/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether EU institutions and bodies had strategies to reduce the environmental impact of their administrative activities and whether these strategies had been effectively implemented.
In the report, the Court called on the EU institutions and bodies to develop a common policy approach to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 footprint).
The introduction of the environmental management and audit system is slow and the available information on the actual level of emissions is incomplete.
Few institutions and bodies systematically use environmental procurement.
While EU institutions and bodies have managed to reverse the trend of increasing greenhouse gas emissions in connection with energy consumption in their buildings, no clear trends in the reduction of other sources of emissions, such as missions, could be identified on the basis of available data.
More than half of the EU's audited institutions and bodies had not set any quantified targets for reducing their emissions.
EU environmental policy aims at a high level of protection.
The Treaty (TFEU) requires that environmental protection requirements be included in the definition and implementation of Union policies and measures to promote sustainable development.
Our activities 31 Revenue/own resources Own resources are the EU's revenue that is used to finance its expenditure.
There are three types of own resources: traditional own resources (imports from outside the EU, taxes on production of sugar), own resources based on VAT and own resources derived from GNI (the largest source of revenue of the EU budget).
In 2014, the Court adopted the following special report in this area: • Will preferential trade arrangements be managed in a fair manner?
(No 2/2014) – In this special report, the Court assessed whether the Commission assessed the economic impact of preferential trade arrangements appropriately and whether controls effectively ensure that imports cannot be wrongly preferential in customs duties, resulting in a loss of EU revenue.
The audit showed that the Commission has over time increased the quality of its impact assessments, but still does not sufficiently analyse the economic impact of preferential trade arrangements.
The EU is missing revenue due to weaknesses in Member States' customs controls: these controls do not prevent certain imports from being wrongly subject to preferential customs duties.
Through unilateral preferential trade arrangements, the EU grants preferences to developing countries to provide them with duty-free access to the EU market and thus contribute to the eradication of poverty and to the promotion of sustainable development.
In 2011, the value of goods imported into the EU under preferential trade arrangements was more than EUR 242 billion, representing 14% of imports into the EU.
Our activities 32 Financial and economic governance The European Union's framework for economic governance aims to prevent or investigate and correct problematic economic developments, such as excessive government deficits or debt levels, which may hamper growth and expose the sustainability of public finances to risk.
In 2014, the Court adopted its first Special Report in this area: • European Banking Supervision is taking shape – EBA in a changing environment (No 5/2014) – In this Special Report, the Court examined whether the Commission and the European Banking Authority (EBA) have exercised their responsibilities satisfactorily in establishing new regulatory and supervisory arrangements in the banking sector and how effectively these arrangements have worked.
The audit showed that the Commission's lead reform of banking legislation and the establishment of EBA were the first major responses to the financial crisis.
EBA has laid the foundations for a new regulatory and supervisory system for the banking sector.
The identified weaknesses concerned cross-border banking supervision, the assessment of the resilience of EU banks and the promotion of consumer protection.
In the context of the implementation of the 2011 stress test, which was carried out without financial protection measures at EU level, the EBA had only a limited legal mandate and scarce human resources.
Although the stress test in 2011 resulted in the recapitalisation of many banks, it also made it clear that such stress tests are restricted if they do not go hand in hand with the assessment of the quality of the overall assets.
Questions remain as to the future role of EBA in banking supervision, as well as the respective roles and responsibilities of EBA and the ECB.
As a result of the financial crisis, the Commission has launched measures to stabilise the banking sector, aimed at strengthening the regulatory framework and supervision, particularly in cross-border banks.
The EBA was created in 2011 as part of the detailed proposals for regulatory changes.
EBA plays a role in the supervision of European banking regulation and consumer protection.
Our activities 33 Opinions and other statements adopted in 2014 The Court's opinions on proposals for new or amended acts with financial implications contribute to improving EU financial management.
These opinions are delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and used by the legislative authorities – the European Parliament and the Council – in their work.
The Court may also, on its own initiative, issue position papers and analyses on other issues.
At the Court's initiative, the European Court of Auditors' position on the Commission's report on the fight against corruption was presented, while the investigation into possible savings in the EU budget was carried out by pooling the European Parliament's activities in a single place at the request of the European Parliament.
7 comments in 2014
Our activities 34 Landscape analyses 2014 was marked by profound innovations for the European Union.
Against the background of this change, the Court has designed and created a new product: the Landscape Analysis.
Based on the Court's work and its wealth of knowledge and experience, each analysis will cover a broad range of topics.
The analyses will serve as a basis for consultation and dialogue with the Court's addressees and will help the Court to make comments on important issues which are not subject to scrutiny.
The first Landscape Analysis published in September 2014 dealt with issues of EU accountability and public financial control rules (see box), which was the main basis for the EU accountability conference held in October 2014 (see page 42).
The second analysis entitled "Using EU funds in an optimal way: A landscape analysis on risks to EU financial management" was published in November 2014.
It provides an overview of the EU's financial flows and a summary of the issues to be addressed, inter alia, to ensure that EU taxpayers can be offered a better cost-benefit ratio with regard to the EU budget (see box).
The opinions and landscape analyses are available in full in 23 EU official languages on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu).
2 2 Landscape analyses in 2014
Our activities 35 gaps, overlaps and challenges: A landscape analysis of EU accountability and public financial control rules This landscape analysis aims to raise awareness of an issue of utmost importance for the democratic legitimacy of the EU institutional system and to provide impetus for this consideration.
It describes the key features of a framework for accountability, the role of public financial control, the key elements for a sound chain of accountability and financial control, and six key areas where challenges in terms of accountability and public financial control exist at EU level, and analyses the accountability and financial control arrangements in relation to the various new EU and intergovernmental instruments developed in response to the financial crisis.
Making the most of EU funds: A Landscape Analysis on the Risks to EU Financial Management At a time when Member State governments and taxpayers want to see greater benefits from the resources they contribute, this Landscape Analysis summarises the Court's observations on all aspects of EU financial management.
Based on the Court's 35-year experience in assessing EU revenue and expenditure, this Landscape Analysis provides an overview of EU financial management and a summary of the issues to be addressed to ensure a better cost-benefit ratio with the EU budget.
This analysis is complemented by detailed data sheets on the main features and issues linked to the various revenue and expenditure sectors and suggestions for improvement are made.
Our activities 36 The analysis identifies a number of key points that deserve particular attention: ο excessively complex eligibility schemes and other conditions for EU support that make it difficult to understand, manage and control them and lead to different interpretations; ο rules and procedures for public procurement that are not always respected – either intentionally or because they are not properly understood – and which thus lead to higher costs or delays in EU-funded projects; ο the insufficient capacity of national authorities to manage and disbursement EU funds that increases the risk of errors and the risk of low quality of expenditure; ο poor coordination of EU budget and national budgets, lack of co-financing by Member States, and greater emphasis on compliance with the rules than achieving results; ο a high level of commitments from the previous spending period that still have to be financed from the EU budget.
Accountability framework for EU management and financial control European Parliament and Council (MS) European Audit Court of Auditors European Commission and MS Managing Authorities Chart from the Landscape Analysis of EU Accountability and Public Financial Control Regulations.
Reporting on accountability: transparency Responsibility for the implementation of the EU budget under the Treaties Reporting on audit: independent, objective information Assessment mandate under the Treaties
Our activities 37 Relations with the addressees The value of the Court's contribution to the EU's accountability obligation depends to a large extent on the benefits its main partners derive from its work and its products in the process of accountability.
These partners are the political bodies responsible for public oversight of the use of EU financial resources (i.e. the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments).
Through its 2013-2017 strategy, the Court is required to step up its preparations to monitor external developments and to actively shape relations with its partners.
The President and the members of the Court shall maintain regular contacts with the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control.
In 2014, President Caldeira attended two meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control and a number of plenary sessions of the European Parliament.
This included the presentation of the annual work programme and the annual reports.
The Court's strategic objectives include strengthening the partnership with its main stakeholders, including the various specialised committees of the European Parliament and the Council.
In April 2014, Court of Ville Itälä transferred the newly created function of the member responsible for institutional relations, which helped to strengthen our institution's relations with other EU institutions in a strategic way and to increase the opportunities for greater impact with our work.
In 2014, further Court members were speaking and responding to the Court's annual reports and special reports at 17 meetings 64 times before the Budget Committee.
The resulting discussions resulted in reports drawn up by individual members of the Committee on Budgetary Control on special Court reports, including a draft report on special reports related to the 2013 discharge procedure.
In 2014, the Committee on Budgetary Control started systematically inviting the specialised committees to the ideas of our special reports at its meetings, thus contributing to an increased impact of our work.
In early 2014, the European Parliament adopted a report on the future role of the European Court of Auditors.
The Court welcomed the view expressed in this report that any reform should be considered in the wider context of the challenge of improving EU accountability.
This applies in particular to the Court's work, its relations with the addressees and its use of resources.
The progress made in these areas was highlighted in the 2014 peer review report (see "Important events").
Our activities 38 In many cases, the Court has already launched a number of initiatives to improve its 2013-2017 strategy, including streamlining the audit and reporting process and more flexible resource organisation.
This led to more reports being produced during the year and the average time needed for this was reduced.
Further efficiency gains and increased effectiveness of the audit process are expected from the internal reform project launched in 2014.
In a resolution of November 2013, the European Parliament asked the Court to present a comprehensive analysis of the potential savings for the EU budget that would arise if Parliament had a single seat, taking into account the savings due to the reduced loss of working time and greater efficiency.
The Court presented the outcome of this work in July 2014 and concluded that a move from Strasbourg to Brussels could lead to significant savings, which were slightly higher due to an additional move from Luxembourg to Brussels.
In 2014, the Court continued regular cooperation with the Council in its various configurations and activities.
President Caldeira presented the annual reports to the ECOFIN Council in December 2014 and the Court was regularly invited to present special reports to the various Council committees and working groups.
Ensuring effective relations with national parliaments is another priority for the Court.
The committees of national parliaments responsible for European affairs and financial control are regularly informed of the Court's activities.
During the year, delegations from several national parliaments visited the Court, including a visit by a delegation from the French Senate in July 2014.
The Court also invited the main addressees to the annual seminar of its members in December 2014 to present their views on the challenges of accountability in the EU.
The Court works with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) to combat fraud as a follow-up to the EU budget.
It shall forward to OLAF any evidence of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity affecting the financial interests of the EU which it is investigating in the course of its audit work or which it is informed by third parties.
In 2014, the Court informed OLAF of 16 cases in which fraud, corruption or illegal activities were suspected in the context of the audit work.
Our activities 39 Cooperation with other Supreme Audit Institutions The Court works with other Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCBs) mainly in the following bodies: • Contact Committee of the SAIs of EU Member States; • Network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • International organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the International Organization of Supreme Audit Authorities (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
In September 2014, the Court revised and updated its international cooperation strategy (see box).
EUROSAI Congress, The Hague, June 2014.
Court's Strategy for International Cooperation The Court's Strategy for Cooperation, in line with its overarching strategy for 2013-2017, aims to make the greatest possible contribution to the EU's public accountability, in particular through enhanced bi- and multilateral cooperation with relevant partners such as national Supreme Audit Institutions and international audit organisations.
As the Court's audit obligations cover areas that have an impact across Europe (e.g. fiscal governance) and worldwide (e.g. climate change), our international cooperation activities are even more important than in the past.
The Court's cooperation strategy will focus on the following priorities: ο EU level cooperation within the Contact Committee and individual cooperation with the SAIs of the EU Member States will continue to be the main priorities.
This may include participation in joint audits and joint work in the area of accountability relevant to the EU budget and other EU policies. ο In the context of EU enlargement, the Court will continue to support the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries in their actions to develop expertise. ο As a member of international audit organisations such as INTOSAI, the Court will increase its participation in cooperation activities to define technical standards, as this organisation is of great importance for the development of expertise and for the exchange of knowledge in the public financial control sector.
Through its cooperation strategy, in conjunction with other recent actions, such as the newly established high-level conferences and meetings, the Court will help raise awareness of EU financial management and accountability.
Our activities 40 Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Authorities of the EU Member States The European Court of Auditors and national audit bodies are working together in a trustful manner, while respecting their independence, in accordance with the Treaty.
The Court actively cooperates with the SAIs of EU Member States within the Contact Committee, including an annual meeting and the various working groups, networks and task forces set up to address specific issues of common interest.
In October 2013, the Court took over the chair of the Contact Committee for a year.
As chairman, the Court hosted the annual meeting of the Contact Committee, which took place in October 2014.
The main agenda items included a seminar on strengthening cooperation, in particular in areas related to the Europe 2020 strategy and the Banking Union, reporting on the activities of the Contact Committee and its technical partners, and audits carried out by members of the Contact Committee with EU reference.
The Court also cooperates with the SAIs of EU Member States on a bilateral basis.
A good example of this is a project jointly carried out by the Court and the SAIs of Poland, Najwyższa Izba Kontroli, in which the auditors of the Polish SAIs actively participated in our audit work in Poland on the eradication, control and monitoring of animal diseases.
In addition, in the context of the chapter on the outcome of the 2014 annual report, the Court is working with the SAIs of Poland and Portugal on Europe 2020.
Meeting of the Contact Committee in Luxembourg on 15-17 October 2014.
Our activities 41 Network of Supreme Audit Institutions of Candidate Countries and Potential Candidate Countries Cooperation between the Court and the SAIs of Candidate Countries and potential candidate countries is primarily carried out through a network comparable to the Contact Committee1.
During 2014, the Court assisted the network in carrying out a parallel energy efficiency impact assessment, in particular by providing experts for the sector and methodology of the audit.
International organisations for public financial control bodies In 2014, the Court continued to participate fully and actively in the activities of INTOSAI and made important contributions to various committees and working groups: • under Objective 1 of INTOSAI as a member of the Technical Standards Committee and as a member of the Subcommittee for Auditing Accounting, the Subcommittee for Auditing Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits; • under Objective 2 of INTOSAI as a member of the Committee for the Development of Technical Skills and the Subcommittee for Promoting Best Practices and Quality Assurance through Voluntary Peer Reviews; • under Objective 3 of INTOSAI as a member of the Committee for the Exchange of Knowledge and its Working Group on Environmental Auditing and the Working Group on Financial Modernisation and Regulatory Reform. The Court participated in the IXth EUROSAI Congress in June 2014. In this context, it organised and organised a workshop on "Measuring your performance".
He also attended the XLI. and XLII. meeting of the EUROSAI Bureau, to which he has been a member since 2011, and the Court continued to actively participate in the EUROSAI working groups, in particular the IT audit and environmental audit work groups, the Monitoring Committee for the establishment and operation of the electronic good practice database on audit quality, as well as the Task Force on Audit and Ethics.
The Court also joined the newly established working group on disaster relief.
In the framework of the joint conferences of regional working groups of INTOSAI, the Court took an active part in the Second Joint ASOSAI2-EUROSAI Conference, which focused on the lessons learned from the experience gained in the context of the adoption of the ISSAI3, and its implications for the future.
1 In January 2015, the network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and a potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina).
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has been participating as an observer in the network. * This designation does not affect positions on status and is in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence.
2 Asian Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (Asian Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions).
3 International standards for Supreme Audit Institutions.
Our activities 42 Key events International expert review of the Court In 2013, the Court asked the SAIs of France, Germany and Sweden to carry out peer review of their practice of economic assessment.
The peer review was based on the experience of all three partners and was a very useful exercise for both the court and the expert reviewers.
The methodology was based on generally accepted criteria for the work of SAIs and took into account the guidelines set out in international standards.
The peer review was published on the Court's website (eca.europa.eu) in 2014.
The peers concluded that the Court had made considerable progress since the last peer review in 2008.
The Court had examined the challenges posed by the complex institutional framework of the EU and had taken a number of steps to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of its audits and the quality of its audit reports.
International auditing principles encourage international peer reviews to be carried out.
These allow Supreme Audit Institutions to obtain a voluntary assessment of the performance of their tasks based on international standards.
In 2014, the Court headed the peer review of the Supreme Audit Authority of Lithuania and was asked to assess the Swiss Federal Financial Control and to participate in peer reviews of the SAIs of Spain and Latvia.
High-level conference on improving accountability in the EU From left to right: Jacques Sciberras, Head of Cabinet, Kevin Cardiff, Member of the Court, President Vítor Caldeira and EP Vice-President Olli Rehn.
In October 2014, the Court organised a high-level conference to which numerous persons were invited to ensure that the European Union was accountable for public funding to achieve its objectives.
The conference focused on the gaps, overlaps and challenges at EU and Member State level identified in the Court's Landscape Analysis on EU accountability and public financial control rules (see page 35).
The conference gave the opportunity to discuss among participants, including members or representatives of the European Parliament, the European Commission, the Court, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, the European Stability Mechanism, national audit institutions and science. It discussed how these arrangements should be developed in response to developments in economic, budgetary and monetary integration.
The focus was on accountability within the EU, in particular with regard to central banks and supervisors, post-crisis structures, increasing the leverage of EU funds through external participation and a stronger focus on EU performance.
The conference agreed that there was a need for greater cooperation between government authorities, parliaments and auditors at EU and Member State level in order to give the public a better picture of the achievements of EU policies and programmes.
Our activities 43 Strengthening partnerships with national authorities in Lithuania A high-level delegation from the Court visited Lithuania in September 2014 to strengthen partnerships with Parliament, the government, the Central Bank and the SAIs of the country and to promote the best possible use and control of EU expenditure there.
The Court and its partners in Lithuania exchanged views on the priorities for improving EU accountability and considered how they could best contribute to the added value of EU expenditure through their cooperation and help policy-makers and Parliament in Lithuania to make the best use of the Court's audit results.
During the visit, the Court delegation took an active part in the Lithuanian Parliament conference on the challenges of accountability and public sector audit.
In addition, the delegation and its partners discussed issues of financial and economic governance and the benefits for Lithuania from Lithuania's accession to the euro area on 1 January 2015.
Lithuania was the first of a number of EU Member States to visit the Court in the coming years to strengthen partnerships with national authorities responsible for managing and controlling EU funds.
Our Management 44 The College of the Court The College of the Court is composed of one member from each Member State.
The term of office of the members of the Court is six years, and a term of office is possible.
Members are assigned to one of five chambers.
The boards adopt audit reports and opinions and take decisions on more far-reaching strategic and administrative issues.
In addition, each member is responsible for his or her own tasks, which are primarily audit-related tasks.
The audit work is carried out by the Court's auditors and coordinated by the competent member, assisted by his cabinet.
The member then presents the report for adoption by the Chamber and/or the whole College of Courts, and later the presentation in the European Parliament, the Council and other interested parties, including the media.
In accordance with the proposals of its Member States and after consulting the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union appointed six new Members of the European Court of Auditors in 2014.
Four of these members – Alex Brenninkmeijer (Netherlands), Danièle Lamarque (France), Nikolaos Milionis (Greece) and Phil Wynn Owen (United Kingdom) – welcomed the Court on 1 January, two more – Klaus‐Heiner Lehne (Germany) and Oskar Herics (Austria) – were welcomed on 1 March 2014.
On 23 January 2014, the 28 members of the Court again elected Vítor Caldeira as President of the Court for a third three-year period.
The President shall be responsible for supervising the performance of the Court's mandate and representing the institution externally.
Members of the Court at the end of 2014.
Meeting of the Court's members on 27 October 2014.
Our Management 45 Igors LUDBORŽS Latvia Lazaros S. LAZAROU Cyprus Henrik OTBO († 1.2.2015) Denmark Doyen EUROPEAN COURT of AUDITORS 31 December 2014 President Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Portugal Chamber I - Preservation and management of natural resources Doyen Rasa BUDBERGYTו Lithuania Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Karel PINXTEN Belgium Doyen Milan Martin CVIKL Slovenia Jan KINŠT Czech Republic Kersti KALJULAID Estonia Augustyn KUBIK Poland Kevin CARDIFF Ireland Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Oskar HERICS Austria Doyen Doyen Doyen Ladislav BALKO Slovakia Szabolcs FAZAKAS Hungary Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria George PUFAN Romania Phil WYNN OWEN United Kingdom Klaus-Heiner LEHNE Germany Louis GALEA Malta Pietro RUSSO Italy Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA Spain Neven MATES Croatia Alex BRENINKIMER Netherlands Evaluation - Board of the European Union for Structural Policies and Transport
Our management 46 Court Strategy for 2013-2017: Progress achieved 2014 was the second year in which the Court implemented its strategy for the period 2013-2017.
This period will maximise the value of the contribution the Court makes to the EU's public accountability.
In order to achieve this objective, the Court shall focus on the following priorities: ο the focus of the Court's products on improving the accountability of the EU; ο cooperation with other actors to strengthen the Court's contribution to the accountability of the EU; ο the development of the Court as a professional audit body; ο the optimum use of the Court's knowledge and expertise; ο the Court's capacity to perform and exercise its accountability.
In 2014, the strategy initiated a major restructuring of the Court's organisational structure.
Two internal working groups dealing with the strategy (the strengthening of audit procedures and the "better definition of tasks and responsibilities") presented their results.
This coincided with the European Parliament's report on the future role of the ECA and the results of the peer review procedure to which the Court has subjected itself.
The various recommendations were summarised in a far-reaching reform project, whose implementation started at the end of 2014 and will last until mid-2016.
In the case of special reports, this means that they are to be produced in a shorter time, and in the case of the annual report, greater focus and resource savings are sought.
Two things are to be done to transform the farm into a task-based organisation.
This will help him to use resources specifically for those audits and analyses that provide the greatest added value for EU citizens.
Our management 47 Measuring the Court's performance Since 2008, the Court has been applying central performance indicators (ZLI) to inform management of progress made in achieving its objectives, support the decision-making process and provide information on performance to its users.
The CLI reflects the Court's priorities and provides information on its performance and accountability as a professional audit body.
The indicators are used to measure core parameters for the quality and impact of the Court's work, taking into account the position of key stakeholders and the efficiency and effectiveness of its use of resources.
The ZLIs have been updated for the period covered by the 2013-2017 strategy.
Assessment by addressees Relevant reports Probable impact of reports Quality and impact of the Court's work The Court assesses the quality and impact of its reports on the basis of assessments by addressees and expert reviews. Another evaluation criterion is the measures taken to improve EU financial management, as a result of its recommendations.
In addition, the court measures its media presence.
Assessment by addressees The Court has asked its main addressees – the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Council's Committee on Budgets, the main audited bodies at the Commission and EU agencies, and the Presidents of the EU ORCB – to assess the relevance and impact of its reports published in 2014 on a five-tier scale from "very high" to "very low".
2 100 % very low 13 56 25 4 13 53 25 9 0 % 20 % very high 40 % 60 % high medium low The replies show that 94% of the main addressees consider the value of the ECA reports to be relevant for their work (2013: 98%). 91% believe that the Court's work has an impact (2013: 94%).
Our management 48 expert reviews Each year independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of Court reports for quality assessment. In 2014, the reviewers assessed eight special reports and the 2013 annual reports.
They assessed the quality of different aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "high-quality" (4).
Audits of Court reports by experts The very consistent results in recent years indicate the satisfactory quality of Court reports.
100 % 90 % 80 % 70 % 60 % 50 % 40 % 30 % 20 % 10 % 4 3 2 1 0 2,8 3.0 3.0 3,1 2011 2012 2013 2014 Follow-up of recommendations The recommendations made in its audit reports are a key instrument for the Court to contribute to improving EU financial management.
Some recommendations can be implemented quickly, while others require more time due to their complexity.
At the end of 2014, 69% of the almost six hundred recommendations that the Court made in 2011-2014 were implemented.
This represents an increase in the implementation rate of 60% in 2013 for the recommendations made in 2010-2013.
91% 65% 58% 60% 2014 2013 2012 2011 Quality assessment
Our management 49 Media presence The indicator concerning the court's media presence reflects the court's effect in the media.
It concerns the strategic objective of raising awareness of the Court, its products, its audit findings and conclusions.
In 2014, the Court identified more than 5 100 online articles relating to its special reports, the annual reports 2013 and the institution in general.
40 % of these covered audit reports, while the other articles referred to the institution and its work in general.
Over 800 articles have been published on the Special Report on Airports of the ECA Implementation of the Work Programme The Court plans its audits and other tasks in the light of the annual work programme and monitors progress during the year.
In 2014, the Court carried out 95% of the tasks foreseen in its work programme (90 %).
While work on the annual reports and special annual reports was carried out as planned, this was the case for the special reports for 85% (2013: 70%).
The 2014 economic audits were carried over to 2015.
Media Reference Topics 29 11 60 0 % 20 % Special Reports 40 % 60 % Annual Reports 2013 80 % The Court generally evaluates the efficiency and effectiveness of its resources by assessing the capacity to implement its work programme, carry out audits in a timely manner and ensure the expertise of its staff.
Implementation of the EAFRD's 2014 work programme 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% Annual reports Special reports Special annual reports Other tasks Total 100 % 100 % 100 % 95 % 85 %
Our management 50 Preparation of special reports In order for the Court to have an effect, they must be submitted promptly.
In recent years, the Court has managed to shorten the time required for the examinations.
The aim of the 2013-2017 strategy is to achieve further improvements and this strategy is expected to produce measurable results in the coming years.
Processing period of the special reports issued in 2014 In 2014, the Court produced 24 special reports, of which 42 % (2013: 37 %) were completed within the 18-month timeframe envisaged by the Court.
On average, 19 months were needed for the preparation of the special reports adopted in 2014 (2013: 20 months).
100% 80% 60% 60% 40% 20% 0% 10-18 months 10 SB 18-26 months 13 SB 4% Longer than 26 months 1 SB 54 % 42% Professional Training In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), the Court strives to provide auditors with an average of 40 hours (5 days) of professional training (without language courses).
Training days per examiner per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 10 2012 2013 2014 Average number of training days for examiners (without language courses) The Court again exceeded the target for professional training of examiners, as it shows the importance it attaches to personnel development.
With 6.4 target ≥ 5 days 5.2 5.8 consideration of language courses, an average examiner spent 10 days of further education in 2014.
Support for audit activities Personnel resources Personnel allocation Following the difficult situation of public finances in Europe, the Court continued the reduction of staff per year over a period of five years (2013-2017) by 1%, as set out in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of December 2013.
As a result, staffing was reduced from 891 to 882 temporary officials and staff (excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees) in 2014.
Of the posts, 561 are allocated to the audit boards (including 113 staff in the members' cabinets).
In 2014, with a view to achieving the best possible use of resources, possibilities for efficiency improvement through the unification of procedures were once again identified and implemented in all activities.
The transfer of staff from support to audit services was also continued in 2014.
However, this was compensated by the re-location of certain support services from members' cabinets to an administrative pool and the transfer of the Communication and Institutional Relations Unit to the President's services.
51 Recruitment The Court's staff have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
The Court's recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and the staff consists of both officials and temporary agents.
In 2014, an internal selection procedure for grade AST 1 and a selection procedure for the recruitment of a speaker were conducted.
The Court also provided placements for 77 graduates for periods of three to five months throughout the year.
The Court recruited 78 staff in 2014: 31 officials, 29 temporary staff, 13 contract staff and five seconded national experts.
The number of vacancies has been close to 3% since 2011 (on 31 December 2014 27 vacancies were vacant).
Distribution of Court posts on 31 December 2014 2012 2013 2014 Examination services 573 576 561 Translation 143 147 141 Administration 139 137 141 Presidential services 32 31 39 Total 887 891 882
Supporting audit activities 52 Balance between men and women Like the other EU institutions, the Court has a policy of equal opportunities in the management of personal rights and recruitment.
After a continuous increase in the proportion of women over the years, the Court has now reached a balanced 50% male and female share among its employees.
The following graph shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility on 31 December 2014, which has hardly changed in recent years.
Men and women by category of staff in 2014 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Assistants - Secretaries Auditors - Boards of Directors Men Management Women 66% 41% 59% 31% 69% 34%
Support for audit activities 53 managers by nationality and sex on 31 December 2014 Women Men Nationality1 Directors Head of Unit 4 Belgium 1 3 1 Bulgaria 1 1 Czech Republic 1 1 1 Denmark 2 3 4 Germany 1 6 1 Estonia 1 3 Ireland 1 2 1 2 Greece 1 2 3 4 Spain 1 6 8 France 1 7 1 Croatia 1 1 2 Italy 3 Cyprus 1 Latvia 1 1 1 Lithuania 1 1 Luxembourg 1 Hungary 1 1 Malta 1 1 Netherlands 2 1 Austria 1 1 Poland 1 2 1 Portugal 3 1 Romania 1 1 Slovenia 1 1 Slovakia 1 1 1 Finland 1 1 Sweden 1 1 8 United Kingdom 4 5 21 46 Total 11 56 1 In the order of the Member States' protocols.
Support for audit activities 54 The Action Plan on Equal Opportunities aims to achieve a balanced proportion of men and women at all levels of the Court.
According to the latest recruitment waves, 48% of employees in grades AD 5 to AD 8 are women (an increase compared to 43% in 2009).
Age profile The age profile of the staff in active employment on 31 December 2014 shows that 53% of the staff of the Court are 44 years old or younger.
20-24 0.1 % 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0.3 % As the next five to ten years are expected to be renewed in senior management positions, the growing proportion of women in the AD function group will lead to more women in future positions.
27 (40%) of the 67 directors and heads of units are 55 years old or older.
As a result, in the next five to ten years, when they retire, they will be re-established in senior management positions.
2.4% 10.3% 19.2% 21.9% 18.1% 14.3% 3.9% 9.4%
Supporting audit activities 55 Support services Professional training To further develop the Court as a professional audit body and to make the best use of its existing knowledge, expertise and expertise, it is necessary to provide continuous training for staff to keep pace with professional developments and acquire new skills.
In 2014, the Court's staff (auditors and other employees) completed on average eight days of professional training.
The proportion of language courses in continuing vocational training is continuing to decline.
In 2014, this represented 43% of the total number of training days (compared to 46% in 2013).
To make the best use of existing resources and technologies, the Court has been offering its employees individual e-learning courses and training courses since 2014, in the form of integrated learning, in which participants complete the general theory in an online training course before the event.
Furthermore, the objective of exchanging existing internal knowledge and providing the Court's auditors with the latest developments in the public sector audit has been pursued, and presentations of internal and external experts on audit developments and other relevant areas have been organised.
Translation Translation is an audit support activity that enables the Court to fulfil its mission and to achieve its communication objectives, which are to provide the results it has provided in the languages of EU citizens.
In 2014, the total translation volume was 4% higher than in 2013.
More than 98% of the translations were completed on time.
In addition to normal translation work, the Translation Directorate further expanded the direct participation of translators in the Court's audit and core business: translators provided linguistic support during 40 audit visits throughout the EU and in drafting audit reports.
In 2014, the Translation Directorate focused on quality assurance.
The first quality assurance manual in the translation sector was adopted and a system for customer feedback was developed.
Finally, the process of translation work was reviewed and optimised in order to make the services more efficient.In cooperation with the Information Technologies Directorate, the process was started to automate.
Support for audit activities 56 All the processes related to the development and provision of instruments were carried out under the control of security and continuity of operation: for example, in 2014, following the new K3 building's arrival, a comprehensive test was carried out on the re-launch of the IT systems (disaster recovery) after a collapse, and central IT components were modernised (e.g. the introduction of the Court's e-mail system migration).
Administration and infrastructure The Directorate for Finance and Support Services is responsible for providing adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mandate and achieve its strategic objectives, and for ensuring that the necessary financial, internal controls and accounting mechanisms are available to support all the Court's activities.
In 2014, the Directorate continued to focus on making its activities even more efficient and economic.
An environmental management system for the Court is currently being developed in line with the principles of the Community system for environmental management and audit (EMAS), with certification to be obtained by the end of 2016.
In 2014, several measures were successfully implemented, delivering concrete results and demonstrating the Court's commitment to the environment, including: • adoption of environmental policy; • implementation of environmental analysis and verification of compliance with environmental law; • increasing the number of campaigns to sensitize environmental workers from four in 2013 to eight in 2014; • obtaining BREEAM environmental certification (the world's leading method for designing and evaluating sustainable buildings) for the K3 building and maintaining the certification mark for good waste management; • promoting sustainable transport among workers by providing a new bicycle room with showers and changing areas for cyclists, installing an electric car charging station and reserving good parking places for cycling communities.
Support for audit activities 57 Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union.
The Court's budget includes around 0.093 % of the total EU expenditure and 1.58% of the total administrative expenditure.
In 2014, the overall budget execution rate was 98.8%, compared with 92% in 2013.
The higher execution rate is mainly due to better estimation and planning of expenditure in Title 1, which achieved an average execution rate of 98.8%.
For Title 2, the average execution rate was 98.4%.
Implementation of the 2014 budget Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 15 190 93 180 4 191 3 350 2 629 118 540 2 564 7 199 1 543 552 703 2 397 14 958 133 498 14 554 92 774 4 113 2 592 117 152 2 541 7 199 1 541 532 649 2 264 14 726 131 878 96% 99% 93% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 99% 1 000 euro 14 420 92 745 4 071 2 641 1 957 115 834 1 830 3 581 686 450 466 1 316 8 329 124 163 162 - Missions 20 - Buildings Subtotal Title 1 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Mobiliar and ancillary costs 23 - Current operational expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications
Support for audit activities 58 budget 2015 The 2015 budget has fallen by 0.4% compared to 2014.
Budget 2015 Title 1 - Members and staff of the institution 10 - Members of the institution2 12 - Officials and temporary staff 14 - Other staff and external services 10 291 97 420 4 301 3 700 2 669 118 381 3 080 7 152 785 426 717 2 365 14 525 132 906 15 175 93 180 4 096 3700 2 612 118 763 3 350 7 110 808 438 768 2 261 14 735 133 498 HOUSEHOLD1 162 missions 20 - Buildings Subtotal Title 1 161, 163, 165 - Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 2015 (1 000 euro) 2014 (1 000 euro) Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 210 - Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 - Mobile and ancillary costs 23 - Current operating expenditure 25 - Meetings and conferences 27 - Information and publications Subtotal Title 2 Court of Auditors total 1 The information in the table corresponds to the budget originally adopted.
2 The Commission's proposal to include the expenditure on pensions of former members of all the EU institutions in the Commission section of which the expenditure on pensions of staff of all the institutions is already entered, has transferred the expenditure on pensions of former members of the Court in the 2015 budget adopted to the Commission section.
Support for audit activities 59 Audit and accountability Internal audit of the Court The internal auditor advises the Court on risk control issues by issuing opinions on the quality of management and control systems and recommendations to improve the conditions for the management of operations and to promote sound financial management.
The internal auditor also supports the work of the external auditor, whose mission is to certify the Court's annual accounts.
The internal auditor reported to the Court on the results of the audits carried out during 2014, the findings, recommendations and the measures taken on the basis of these recommendations.
The Court reports annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal auditor's work.
In October 2014, the Court's internal audit was certified to be in conformity with the definition of internal audit, code of conduct and standards established by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IAA).
This certification was the result of a comprehensive quality assessment of the Court's internal audit, which was carried out by an external assessor, Deloitte SARL, at the request of the Internal Auditor and the Internal Audit Committee, and was also in line with the IIA's international standards for internal audit professional practice.
External audit of the Court The Court's annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same transparency and accountability principles to itself as to the bodies it examines.
The auditor's report – Pricewaterhouse‐ Coopers SARL – on the Court of Auditors' annual accounts for the financial year 2013 was published on 18 September 2014.
Audit opinions of the independent auditor – Financial year 2013 As regards the annual accounts, the annual closure provides a true picture of the financial and financial situation of the European Court of Auditors as at 31 December 2013, its earnings and cash flows for the year ending on that reporting date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Eura‐tom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and to Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation.
Declaration by the 60 authorising officer by delegation The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate and confirms with sufficient certainty that the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes envisaged and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, and that the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and of the reasonable handling of fraud or suspicion of fraud, costs and benefits of the controls are appropriate.
This security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and on the information available to him, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers by subdelegation, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 February 2015 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS DE 2015 Activity report
02 EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/ContactForm.aspx Website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditorsECA A great deal of additional information on the European Union is available on the Internet.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2016 Print ISBN 978-92-872-4091-0 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-4084-2 EPUB ISBN 978-92-872-4066-8 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/880265 doi:10.2865/420922 doi:10.2865/528320 QJ-AA-16-001-EN-C QJ-AA-16-001-EN-N QJ-AA-16-001-EN-E © European Union, 2016 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
European Court of Auditors, EU financial statements
European Court of Auditors 02 About the Court The European Court of Auditors is the independent external audit body of the European Union, based in Luxembourg.
He has 28 members – one from each EU Member State – and employs around 900 staff from all EU Member States in the audit and administration field.
Since its establishment in 1977, the Court has been committed to improving EU financial management and accounting.
The Court's tasks The Court shall verify that the EU funds have been correctly recorded and taken up and spent in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations and that the best use is made.
It warns against risks, provides security and provides guidance to EU policy-makers on how to improve public financial management and ensure that European citizens know how to use their money.
Through its audit work and other activities, the Court contributes to strengthening the democratic legitimacy and sustainability of the European Union.
Content 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 President's Preface 5 2015 at a glance 5 Our Activities 5 Our Management 6-40 Our Activities 6-9 Audits 10-13 Annual Reports 14 Special Annual Reports 15-33 Special Reports 34 Opinions 35-36 High-level events and conferences 37-38 Relations with the addressees 39-40 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions 41-49 Our Management 41-42 The Court's College 43-45 Court's Strategy for 2013-2017 46-49 Measuring Performance 50-59 Support for Audit Activities 50-53 Personnel Resources 53-55 Support Services 56-57 Financial Information 58-59 Audit and Accountancy 60 Statement by the authorising officer by delegation
Foreword by President 04 Dear reader, in 2015, to which this report refers, the European Union was once again faced with major challenges: significant developments in the EU's leadership, policies and financial management, including the establishment of the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) and the introduction of the Single Resolution Mechanism for Banks in the euro area.
These and other developments have led to new audit tasks for the Court.
In 2015, we also reviewed the activities of the EU institutions and other bodies, as well as all EU funds paid to Member States, countries outside the EU, international organisations and other beneficiaries.
In accordance with our obligations arising from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we have prepared annual reports on the general budget of the EU and on the European Development Funds, as well as special annual reports on the accounts of more than 50 agencies and other bodies of the EU.
In addition, we produced 25 special reports on many topics, the results of which are summarised in the present activity report.
We would like to draw your attention in particular to two special reports: our report on the emissions trading system, which shows that our work goes beyond purely financial matters, and our report on financial assistance to countries in difficulty, which is part of a series of new special reports on financial and economic governance.
We also delivered eight opinions last year on new or amended EU legislation with significant financial implications, including an opinion on the Regulation establishing the EFSI.
To make a difference with our work, we need to pass on the lessons learned to stakeholders at EU and national level.
During the year, we have further deepened our cooperation with the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union – our main partners in ensuring the EU's accountability.
We presented the results of our audits to an increasing number of specialised committees of these bodies and we took their concerns into account when planning future audits.
The Court also paid high-level visits to Member States to strengthen partnerships with national authorities, parliaments and audit bodies.
In 2015, we organised two notable conferences: one in Brussels on EU energy security and the other in Luxembourg on the future of development aid in the context of the new United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.
We also prepared a major internal reform to better respond to the continuous developments within the European Union.
This report explains some important changes we have made in relation to our relations with stakeholders, our audits and our resources.
In addition, you will receive important information about our human resources management, finances and performance, and the results of our internal and external audits of the past year, as well as the latest annual discharge procedure.
I hope that this report will give you a useful and interesting overview of the Court's activities in 2015, which we want to fulfil our mission of improving EU financial management, promoting accountability and transparency and protecting the financial interests of EU citizens.
Our activities in 2015 05 Our management • Annual reports on the EU general budget • and the European Development Funds for the financial year 2014, which essentially contain the Statements of Assurance and the audit results. • 52 special annual reports with the Court's audit opinions on the accounting of individual agencies and other EU bodies, as well as two summary reports. We carried out an internal reform to streamline our audit and reporting procedures and to allow greater flexibility in the management of our resources. • 25 special reports on certain management issues and budgetary areas, including the emissions trading system, youth employment programmes and assistance during the financial crisis. • 8 opinions on new or amended EU legislation and other decisions affecting financial management, from the proposed regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments to the amended regulation on the single resolution mechanism. • Meetings, seminars and conferences with our addressees, including two high-level conferences on EU accountability, one on energy security and the other on the future of development assistance.
We continued our equal opportunities policy in recruitment and human resources management. • We made considerable progress in integrating audit management and audit documentation information systems. We also made audit-related information available on mobile devices. The premises of the European Court of Auditors in Luxembourg.
Our activities 06 Audits Our audit reports and opinions are an important link in the EU's accountability chain, as they are used to hold the bodies responsible for the EU's financial management accountable, especially in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
These bodies are primarily the European Commission, but also the other EU institutions and bodies.
In areas where shared management is concerned, Member States also play an important role, as in expenditure on agricultural and cohesion measures.
Our three main products are: • Annual reports, which essentially cover the results of audits of the accounts and compliance audits of the European Union budget and the European Development Funds (EDF), but also aspects of financial management and performance.
• Special reports presenting the results of selected economic or compliance audits on specific expenditure or policy areas or on budgetary or management issues. • Opinions on new or amended legal acts affecting financial management and other products based on analysis, either at the request of another institution or on the Court's own initiative.
We strive to manage our resources in a way that ensures an appropriate balance between our various activities, while well covering the various areas of the EU budget and achieving sound results.
In 2015, we used a significant share of our resources to produce the annual Statements of Assurance, which were then presented in our annual reports.
The work of the Statement of Assurance covers the two aspects on which we have to give an annual audit opinion in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union: the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
Furthermore, we take into account, where possible, the work of other auditors (see section on the examination of EU agencies on page 14) and management declarations in the form of the Annual Activity Reports of the Directors-General of the Commission.
In addition to the statutory audits, we choose at our discretion special expenditure or policy areas. This is based on criteria such as the risk of irregularities or inadequate performance, potential for improvement and public interest.
We select these topics completely independently, but take into account the positions of our addressees.
In 2015, we produced 25 special reports, which are the result of our audit work.
The summaries of the special reports are presented in this report (pp. 15-33).
In 2015, we issued eight opinions on proposals for new or amended regulations and regulations (p. 34).
In particular, we would like to draw attention to our opinion on the EFSI to clarify both the issue and the impact of our opinions.
All audit reports and opinions are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Our Activities 07 Audit Reports and Opinions 2013-2015 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total 91 2 Total 89 2 52 25 10* Total 77 2 50 19 6 51 24 14 * Annual Reports Special Reports Opinions and other announcements Eight opinions and two summary reports on EU agencies and Joint Undertakings. 2013 2014 2015
Our activities 08 audit visits in 2015 While most of the audit work was carried out at the Court's premises in Luxembourg, the auditors also carried out audit visits to Member State authorities, other beneficiaries of EU funds within and outside the European Union (including organisations involved in the award of EU funds, such as the European Investment Bank's regional offices in Kenya and Uganda) and other EU institutions, agencies and bodies.
Through these visits, we obtained direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the authorisation, administration, collection and payment of EU funds, as well as from the respective final recipients.
Our audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors, and the duration of a test visit may be a few days, but also several weeks.
The frequency and intensity of the audit work in each Member State and beneficiary country depend on the type of audit and, where appropriate, sample selection.
The number of visits may therefore vary from country to country and from year to year.
Within the EU, our audit visits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States visited.
In 2015, the Court's auditors spent 4 310 days on-site audits – in Member States and outside the EU – and obtained audit evidence for annual reports and selected audit tasks (special reports).
They also spent a lot of time with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralised agencies and bodies throughout the EU.
The on-site inspections took less days than in 2014.
This is due to more efficient working methods and an increasing use of technologies such as secure data and documents exchange and video conferencing.
Detecting fraud Although our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud, our audit work occasionally encounters cases where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activities.
In combating fraud against the EU budget, the Court cooperates with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
We shall forward any suspicion of fraud, corruption or any other illegal activity to OLAF against the financial interests of the EU, which arise during our audit work.
OLAF will then follow up these cases, which will decide on possible investigations and, where appropriate, cooperate with Member States' authorities.
In 2015, we forwarded 27 cases of suspected fraud to OLAF (2014: 16 cases).
Our activities 09 days on site in 2015 Italy Germany Poland Spain France United Kingdom Greece Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Netherlands Finland Austria Czech Republic Lithuania Ireland Denmark Slovakia Sweden Slovenia Malta Belgium Cyprus Latvia Estonia Luxembourg Switzerland Algeria Azerbaijan Egypt Uganda Serbia China United States Bosnia and Herzegovina Cuba Myanmar Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Turkey Eritrea Ghana Tanzania Norway Albania Haiti Papua New Guinea Rwanda Montenegro Ukraine Ethiopia Kenya Democratic Republic of the Congo Republic of Moldova Total 4 310 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500
Our activities 10 Annual reports on the 2014 financial year In 2015, we devoted most of our audits to the accounting and compliance audits to the implementation of the EU budget for the 2014 financial year.
The 2014 Annual Report, which resulted from this work, was published on 10 November 2015 and presented to our audience, including the European Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the European Union (Economy and Finance Council), national parliaments and governments, and the media.
The main objective of our annual report is to support the European Parliament, the Council and citizens in assessing the quality of EU financial management by presenting findings and conclusions.
In the 2014 Annual Report, we provide a assurance of the use of EU funds during the financial year under review and highlight the areas where the risk of EU funds being used incorrectly was greatest.
In addition, we analyse why errors have occurred and make useful and cost-effective recommendations on possible improvements.
We have revised the structure of our annual report on the financial year 2014 to make the report more readable.
The headings of the chapters now correspond to those of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
The key element of the report remains the Statement of Assurance, in which we give our audit opinion on the reliability of the EU's annual accounts and on compliance with the rules on revenue and expenditure.
We have also specifically assessed all the EU's key areas of activity and provided extensive information on budgetary and financial management.
The report also contains information on the performance of the EU budget and the Commission's performance reporting, in particular with a view to progress towards the Europe 2020 objectives.
President Vítor Caldeira presents the European Parliament with the annual report 2014 of the European Court of Auditors. EU expenditure in 2014 amounted to 142.5 billion euros = nearly 300 euros per citizen
Our activities 11 The key statements of the 2014 Annual Report The European Court of Auditors calls for a new approach to EU investment and expenditure. 
Conclusions and recommendations 
We were therefore able to give a full assessment of their reliability once again.
However, we gave a failed audit opinion on the regularity of payments. 
The highest error rates were recorded for the expenditure under the headings "Economic, social and territorial cohesion (5.7%) and "Competitiveness for growth and employment (5.6%).
Administrative expenditure is the lowest estimated error rate (0.5 %). 
The estimated error rate for reimbursement schemes (5.5%), where the EU reimburses eligible costs for eligible activities on the basis of the cost statements drawn up by beneficiaries, is twice the estimated error rate for payment entitlement based schemes (2.7%), where the payment is not reimbursed but depends on compliance with certain conditions. 
Without these measures, the estimated total error rate would have been 5,5 %.
The Commission needs further improvement in terms of risk assessment and the impact of corrective measures. 
The Commission should take action to address this persistent problem.
The Partnership Agreements and Programmes do not sufficiently take into account the Europe 2020 objectives of the Member States.
These two aspects allow the Commission to monitor and report on the performance and contribution of the EU budget to Europe 2020 only partially. 
It is important that the Commission analyse the areas with persistently high error rates as soon as possible, assess the possibilities for reducing these error rates, while paying greater attention to the performance of expenditure.
Our activities 12 Audit of transactions in the various EU spending areas - Results for 2014 Expenditure area Natural resources Economic, social and territorial cohesion Competitiveness for growth and employment Europe in the world Administration Verified population and estimated error rate 5.6 % 2.7 % 0.5 % 3.6 % 5.7 % Audit conclusion 57.5 billion Euro 55.7 billion Euro 13.0 billion Euro 7.4 billion Euro 8.8 billion Euro 0 20 40 60 billion Euro The table was taken from the EU 2014 review summary information available on our website (eca.europa.eu/en/euauditin letter 2014).
Our activities 13 Annual Report on the European Development Funds (EDF) for 2014 
The EDFs are financed by the Member States and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and, for some aid, by the European Investment Bank.
Their revenue was not significantly affected by errors, while payments had an estimated error rate of 3.8%.
As in previous years, we identified weaknesses in ex ante controls.
The estimated error rate is almost two thirds due to errors in the non-compliance with procurement rules and lack of evidence to justify expenditure.
Our annual report on the EDFs will be published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Our activities 14 Special annual reports for the financial year 2014 In total, funds of around EUR 4 billion were allocated to all EU agencies, bodies and Joint Undertakings in 2014.
EU agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings perform certain tasks on behalf of the EU and are based in different EU Member States.
They are active in a wide range of areas, such as safety, health, research, finance, migration and transport, and each has its own mandate, a board of directors, a director, staff and a budget.
In 2015, we produced 52 special annual reports on the financial year 2014.
They covered 41 decentralised agencies, executive agencies and other EU bodies, eight European research Joint Undertakings, the European Schools, the Galileo Joint Undertaking in liquidation and the Sisnet communication infrastructure.
We also published two summaries that provide an overview of the results of our audits in this area (one on EU agencies and other bodies and the other on the Joint Undertakings).
These reports were submitted to the President of the European Parliament and the Committee on Budgetary Control of Parliament, the General Affairs Council and the Council's Committee on Budgets.
In 2014, the individual accounts of the 33 decentralised agencies and other bodies of the EU were independently audited for the first time by a private audit firm.
In preparing our audit opinions on these financial statements, we took account of this audit work and the measures taken by the audited bodies on the basis of the audit findings.
The financial statements of the other agencies and Joint Undertakings have been fully audited by us.
We found the accounting of all agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings in 2014 to be reliable.
The transactions were legal and proper, except for Artemis (embedded ICT systems), ENIAC (nanoelectronics) and ECSEL (electronic components and systems).
In general, the agencies have further improved their procedures by taking corrective measures based on our comments from previous years.
Our special annual reports and the two summaries of the results of our audits of the agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings for 2014 are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
52 special annual reports on the EU agencies, other bodies and Joint Undertakings, based throughout Europe Headquartered by Europol, The Hague, Netherlands.
Our Activities 15 Special Reports In addition to our annual reports and special annual reports, we publish special reports throughout the year, which contain the results of the economic and compliance audits that we conduct on specific budget areas or management issues of our choice.
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, we are committed to achieving maximum impact and thus using our resources in the best possible way.
Our economic audits often cover several years and their subject matter is complex, so it may take more than a year for these audits to be completed.
In 2015, the special reports focused in particular on the following topics: the overall EU objective of creating added value and growth, and the EU's response to global challenges such as the sustainability of public finances, the environment and climate change.
The 25 special reports prepared in 2015 will be briefly presented under the respective headings corresponding to the headings of the multiannual financial framework.
The main stages of a selected cost-effectiveness or compliance audit Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the reply of the audited body.
02 Clear, structured presentation of the main findings and conclusions.
Development of recommendations.
Identify the usefulness and feasibility of a proposed test.
The scope, objectives, approach, methods and timetable of the audit.
Our activities 16 100 80 60 40 20 0 Competitiveness for growth and jobs 143 billion euros 13% Smart and inclusive growth The smart and inclusive growth category accounts for the largest part of the EU budget.
This area covers the two sub-headings "Competitiveness for growth and employment" and "Economic, social and territorial cohesion".
The sub-heading "Competitiveness for growth and employment" covers funding for trans-European energy, transport and telecommunications networks, business development, research and innovation, education and training, social policy, etc. The planned expenditure in this area for 2014-2020 represents 13% of the total EU budget for the programming period, i.e. EUR 143 billion.
In 2015, the budget for the year was EUR 15.7 billion. • Inland waterway transport in Europe: no significant improvements in the share of transport modes and shipability conditions since 2001 (No 1/2015) – This special report examines whether projects co-financed by the EU budget have contributed effectively to increasing the share of transport modes in inland waterway transport and to improving shipability and whether EU strategies for inland waterway transport have been coherent and based on relevant and comprehensive analyses.
Projects co-financed by the EU have not been implemented effectively, so that inland navigation could not be established as an alternative to freight transport on the road or improved shipability.
Although the Commission had made inland waterway transport a priority, the Member States have paid little attention to inland waterways.
There is no coherent overall strategy among Member States linked by the main maritime corridors and river maintenance and political and environmental considerations are not sufficiently taken into account in EU strategies.
Member States should prioritise those inland waterway projects that bring the greatest and most immediate benefits and the Commission should focus its resources on those projects where advanced plans for the elimination of bottlenecks are available.
EU internal shipping projects received EUR 1.3 billion in funding from the TEN-T programme, the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund during the period 2007-2013.
Our activities 17 • Is the need of micro-entrepreneurs adequately met by EU financial support?
(No 8/2015) – This special report analyses whether the needs of micro-entrepreneurs are met by the European Social Fund (ESF) and the European Progress Microfinance Facility.
The auditors found that the programming and design of the ESF financial support was weak and that the provision of services was not adequately and reliably monitored.
Neither the Commission nor the Member States had comparable information on the administrative costs of each Member State and funding mechanisms.
These circumstances could affect the effectiveness of EU financial support to micro-entrepreneurs.
Member States should make needs assessments in the design of financial instruments and in the preparation of operational programmes, including financial support for micro-entrepreneurs by the EU.
The Commission should make the use of ESF financial instruments by Member States conditional on robust risk management systems being in place.
Microfinance usually provides loans of less than EUR 25 000, often less than EUR 10 000.
Total demand in the EU Member States is estimated at more than EUR 12 billion by financing.
Examples of the report include the provision of EUR 5 000 for the development of a city kiosk and the provision of EUR 9 500 to support the creation of a playground and clothing business. • Improving energy security through the development of the internal energy market: greater efforts are needed (No 16/2015) – This special report examines whether the implementation of internal energy market policies and EU energy infrastructure spending have contributed effectively to achieving a benefit in the field of energy security.
The audit showed that energy infrastructure in Europe is not yet generally geared towards fully integrated markets and therefore does not currently provide an effective security of energy supply.
The Commission should therefore identify non-active energy infrastructure in the EU and work with Member States to remove the obstacles that hinder its use for the purposes of the internal energy market.
The Commission should also consider new ways of making energy from one Member State available to customers in another.
The internal energy market is intended to allow for the free movement and trade of natural gas and electricity throughout the EU.
The EU budget has allocated 3.7 billion euros to finance energy infrastructure from 2007 to 2013 and another 7.4 billion euros are expected between 2014 and 2020.
However, the report points out that the EU's objective of completing the internal energy market by 2014 has not been achieved.
Our activities 18 Economic, social and territorial cohesion Smart and inclusive growth The sub-heading "Economic, social and territorial cohesion" includes regional policies to help the least developed countries and regions of the EU to join the rest, strengthening the competitiveness of all regions and promoting cooperation between them.
The cohesion expenditure planned for 2014-2020 represents 34% of the EU budget for the entire programming period, i.e. 367 billion euros.
100 80 60 40 20 0 367 billion EUR 34% • Efforts to resolve the public procurement problems of EU cohesion expenditure should be stepped up (No 10/2015) – This special report examines whether the Commission and Member States are taking appropriate and effective measures to address the problem of public procurement errors in the area of cohesion policy.
The audit found that there are still widespread problems in public procurement across the EU.
Although the Commission and the Member States have begun to tackle the issue, much remains to be done.
Serious errors have led to a lack of fair competition and contracts not being awarded to the best bidders.
Systematic analysis is only carried out to a very limited extent and there is a lack of sufficiently accurate, reliable and coherent data on the nature and extent of the errors.
In the event that the situation does not improve by the end of 2016, it is recommended that payments for the period 2014-2020 be suspended to the Member States concerned.
In the period 2007-2013, EUR 349 billion was allocated to regional policy expenditure to be paid through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund and the European Social Fund.
A substantial part of this funding will be spent through public procurement.
Errors were identified for around 40% of the projects that the Court assessed in the light of its annual reports on the 2009-2013 financial years in the context of public procurement.
Our activities 19 • EU funding of municipal waste water treatment facilities in the Danube Basin: Member States need further support to achieve the objectives of the EU Waste Water Policy (No 2/2015) – This special report assesses the effectiveness of the support for Member States in the Danube Basin through the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund in achieving the objectives of the EU Waste Water Policy.
The audit showed that while EU spending programmes had a significant share of progress achieved in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia, delays in compliance with the rules and the use of available EU funds were observed in all countries.
Although the wastewater was generally treated appropriately in the plants in these countries, handling of sewage sludge and rain overflows was sometimes inadequate.
One third of the plants were oversized and potentially unsustainable.
Countries were only slowly using the available EU funds, which meant that they were at risk of losing EU funding or of requiring additional funding from national budgets.
The Commission should reinforce reporting requirements and Member States should establish legislation to ensure an immediate connection to public sewerage.
The Commission and the Member States should establish criteria for all types of use of sewage sludge and ensure reliable monitoring of pollutants.
The Danube basin is Europe's largest catchment area.
The EU contribution to wastewater treatment projects in the four Member States audited was €7.9 billion in the 2000-2006 and 2007-2013 programming periods. Water quality in the Danube basin: progress in implementing the Water Framework Directive, but still need for further measures (No. 23/2015) – This special report examines whether the implementation of the Water Framework Directive by the Czech Republic, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia has led to a better quality of surface waters in the Danube basin.
The investigation showed that there have been few improvements since 2004.
The main reason for the limited progress was that the Member States' plans were not ambitious enough.
Specific measures were lacking for water bodies with insufficient quality.
In addition, shortcomings in monitoring systems led to a lack of data, both in terms of the type of pollution and the sources of pollution, which were the cause of a negative assessment of the state of water bodies.
In addition, Member States have excluded a significant number of water bodies without sufficient justification of important deadlines.
In the period 2007-2013, Member States in the Danube basin received EUR 6.35 billion from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund for wastewater treatment.
During the same period, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAF) provided €6.39 billion to compensate farmers for agri-environmental measures.
Our activities 20 • EU Youth Guarantee: The start is made, but implementation risks are foreseeable (No. 3/2015) – This special report examines whether the Commission has adequately supported Member States in setting up the Youth Guarantee and whether there are potential risks in terms of implementation.
The audit identified three risks that could prevent the effective implementation of the Youth Guarantee: the adequacy of the overall budget, the definition of a "high-quality" job and the way in which the Commission monitors the Youth Guarantee and reports on the results.
The auditors concluded that the Commission had provided timely and appropriate support to Member States in implementing the Youth Guarantee.
However, the Commission has not carried out an impact assessment indicating the expected costs and benefits, although this is a standard procedure.
While the Commission had asked Member States to submit cost estimates when submitting their Youth Guarantee implementation plans, some did not provide the information needed, and no Member State indicated the estimated cost of the necessary structural reforms.
The Youth Guarantee was established in June 2013 in response to the worsening situation of unemployed young people, exacerbated by the economic and financial crisis.
In the period 2014-2020, the Youth Guarantee – through the European Social Fund and a special Youth Employment Initiative – will be co-financed by the EU budget with a total of 12.7 billion euros. • Commission support for youth action teams: Re-shifting ESF funds successfully but with insufficient focus on results (No 17/2015) – This special report will examine whether the Youth Action Teams made proposals in 2012 on how ESF funds can help achieve faster and more effective results for unemployed young people and whether these proposals have contributed to the redeployment of ESF funds.
The auditors noted that although the youth action teams established by the Commission managed to shift funds into projects to support young people, they made only limited proposals.
The Commission provided advisory support to Member States, but was limited by the level and quality of the information available.
While the initiative led to a reprogramming and re-allocation of resources from the European Social Fund, the Commission focused on the budgetary implications of the changes to operational programmes.
If there are discrepancies between the promises made and the objectives actually achieved by the Commission, there should be no over-expectation of such initiatives.
As part of its Youth Opportunities Initiative, the Commission set up youth action teams in 2012.
The teams were composed of experts from the eight Member States with the highest youth unemployment figures and experts from the Commission.
The initiative covered the amount of almost EUR 10 billion from the European Social Fund, which was still available in the Member States concerned.
Our activities 21 Natural resources 417 billion euros Sustainable growth: natural resources This heading covers the Common Agricultural and Fisheries Policy, rural development and EU environmental measures.
Three quarters of expenditure concerns direct payments to farmers and support for agricultural markets.
The planned expenditure for 2014-2020 represents almost 39% of the total EU budget for this programming period, i.e. EUR 417 billion.
In 2015, the budget was allocated to the amount of 56 billion euros.
100 80 60 40 20 0 39% • Technical assistance: what contribution has it made in the fields of agriculture and rural development?
(No 4/2015) – This special report examines the use of technical assistance funds in the fields of agriculture and rural development during the 2007-2013 programming period.
The audit focused on the regularity, effectiveness and efficiency of funding at the level of the Commission and the Member States.
The audit showed that neither the European Commission nor the Member States were able to demonstrate how well the use of technical assistance in agriculture and rural development has contributed to the economic use of the budget and to the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
Rural networks to promote cooperation, knowledge exchange and innovation in the agricultural sector are very well suited as recipients of technical assistance.
In most cases, however, the funding for capacity-building has been used to support the general administrative budgets.
The Commission should clarify the scope and use of technical assistance for rural development in the Member States and closely monitor its implementation.
For the period 2007-2013, Member States had planned to use EUR 1.5 billion of EU budget for technical assistance, a ceiling of 4% of the national envelope available for rural development.
For the period 2014-2020, this amount increased to around 1.9 billion euros.
Our activities 22 • Are financial instruments in the field of rural development a successful and promising instrument?
(No 5/2015) – This special report examines the good design and management of the financial instruments (credit and guarantee funds) used in rural development policy during the 2007-2013 programming period.
The audit showed that the financial instruments have not been successful so far.
This is mainly due to the fact that the financial instruments were overcapitalised and could not develop their potential in terms of the desired leverage effect and the revolving effect.
There were no clear arguments for the introduction of financial instruments in the 2007-2013 programming period.
Nor was there reliable quantifiable information to justify the nature of the financial instruments set up, to determine the demand for agricultural financial instruments and to demonstrate that the amount of capital earmarked for a fund was adequate.
Increased incentives should be provided for Member States to establish rural development financial instruments and to strengthen the demand of farmers or other beneficiaries, and appropriate standards and targets for leverage and revolving effect should be established for the period 2014-2020.
By the end of 2013, the EU and its Member States had invested around EUR 700 million in the Guarantee and Credit Fund for Rural Development.
The Commission wants Member States to commit themselves to at least double the use of these instruments for the period 2014-2020.
Close-up of an economic audit: Integrity and implementation of the EU ETS (No. 6/2015) The EU Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) is in some way different from other policies and programmes that we are examining, as it does not receive significant funding from the EU budget.
However, it has a very significant impact on the implementation of policies in the EU and on the quality of life of citizens.
The EU ETS was introduced in 2005 and is often referred to as a reference model for the development of climate change mitigation strategies and emissions trading systems elsewhere in the world.
Therefore, an appropriate framework would be expected to ensure market regulation and supervision, legal certainty and systems for managing essential information.
The basic structures of the implementation systems should also be sufficiently sound.
At the end of 2013, our auditors examined the framework for protecting the integrity of the EU ETS and the systems for the effective implementation of the programme at the Commission and in the Member States by phase II (end of 2012).
The audit was carried out on the basis of the risks inherent in the creation of a functioning market for the implementation of EU climate protection policy and the difficulty of controlling an activity that is not tangible ("How to measure hot air?").
Our auditors examined whether the EU ETS was adequately managed.
They not only carried out file checks and interviews with officials involved in the administration of the EU ETS at the European Commission in Brussels, but also visited the competent authorities in five Member States (Germany, France, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom).
In addition, documents were reviewed and experts consulted in two other countries (Greece and Spain).
Further evidence was obtained by reviewing the documentation of national authorities on 150 installations selected in these seven Member States.
Our activities 23 were analysed. The auditors could not control the installations on the ground, as they do not receive EU funding in connection with the emissions trading scheme and the Court therefore does not have the necessary access rights to the audit.
The evidence obtained from our auditors indicated a lack of supervision of the emissions market and insufficient cooperation between regulatory authorities.
For example, our auditors found that the legal definition of allowances should be clarified and that the procedures for opening ETS accounts in the Union registry and for monitoring transactions were not appropriate to ensure sufficient controls against abuse.
The initial situation was difficult, however: Member States were unable to effectively monitor cross-border transactions because they did not have direct access to the central database and the Commission was unable to monitor transactions because there was no legal basis for this.
In addition, our auditors found that the emission monitoring and reporting systems were not harmonised and that there were weaknesses in control, and that the Commission's support and reporting by the Commission and the Member States were inadequate.
From their findings, the auditors concluded that the framework for market integrity protection is not sufficiently sound and that there have been significant weaknesses in implementation in the final phase, which in part require further measures at the present stage.
However, our report also clearly shows that this innovative system has been continuously improved.
At the time of the publication of the report, the debate on possible reforms of the EU ETS, which focused on the effectiveness of the system and on the management of excess allowances, was not yet complete.
However, in our report, we point out that attention must also be paid to the fundamental questions of market integrity and implementation, so that the EU can trust that this core instrument is sufficiently suited to meet the expectations of emission reductions and low carbon technologies.
We have made some practical recommendations to the Commission and Member State authorities to improve market integrity and the implementation of the system in order to make the EU ETS a more effective instrument for achieving the climate targets by 2020 and beyond.
The Commission agreed with the report's recommendation that major remaining problems with the regulation and supervision of the emissions market should be addressed in order to improve market integrity, where appropriate, and that many improvements have already been made for Phase III (2013-2020), taking into account in particular our comments.
The report sparked a great deal of media interest and was presented by EU accredited journalists at a press conference in Brussels.
In the EU and worldwide, the press reported that the EU ETS needs to be more closely monitored to improve the carbon market. Moreover, the system must be more protected against market abuse, including the still high risk of VAT fraud.
As is customary with all special reports, the member responsible for the report – in this case Kevin Cardiff – presented the report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and, in addition, to the environmental committees of Parliament and the Council, in order to inform them of the Court's findings which may serve as a basis for future decisions on relevant rules and regulations.
Parliament and the Council welcomed our comments and recommendations and will take future proposals into account in improving the integrity and implementation of the system.
Test team (from left to right): Stefan Den Engelsen, Emese Féssźs, Kevin Cardiff and Colm Friel.
Our activities 24 • Are the fisheries partnership agreements well managed by the Commission?
(No 11/2015) – This special report examines whether the agreements are well managed.
The auditors assessed the negotiation and implementation of the agreements, the Commission's monitoring of catches and the selection and control of the financed measures.
The investigation showed that the agreements were generally well managed but the quantities negotiated were often higher than the quantities reported for previous periods.
This regularly leads to incomplete use.
Since the EU makes full payments, irrespective of the de facto fishing, the actual costs were often higher than the negotiated price.
Furthermore, there was a lack of reliable, uniform and complete data on the actual catches of the EU fleet.
The Commission should take into account earlier utilisation rates when negotiating new schemes, which will make payments more closely linked to actual catches and ensure that the new catch database is fully used by flag Member States and contains reliable catch data that can be monitored and kept up to date.
The agreements aim to ensure the sustainability of the fisheries concerned by allowing EU vessels to catch the partner countries' surplus resources.
However, the auditors doubt that the so-called "surplus" can be reliably calculated as reliable information is lacking. • The EU priority of promoting a knowledge-based economy in rural areas has been hampered by the inadequate management of knowledge transfer and advisory activities (No 12/2015) – This special report examines in particular whether there are management and control systems to effectively implement knowledge transfer and advisory measures in the area of rural development.
The audit showed that the implementation of EU-funded vocational training and guidance programmes in rural areas is too expensive, often leads to duplication of existing programmes and favours established training providers.
The auditors identified poor administrative procedures in the Member States and insufficient monitoring by the European Commission.
The Member States relied too much on the proposals of the trainers and considered any type of training as 'good' and eligible for public support.
The lack of fair and transparent selection has led to the repeated selection of existing and established providers and the bulk of the funding.
Member States should select training projects that meet a skill requirement identified in a recurring analysis and avoid the selection process being determined by the providers.
The EU supports rural training and advisory projects with funds from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development.
For the period 2007-2013, EUR 1.3 billion was allocated to these projects.
Together with co-financing by Member States, public funding amounted to EUR 2.2 billion.
The amount could be more than EUR 4 billion in 2014-2020.
Our activities 25 • The cost-effectiveness of EU rural development aid for non-productive agricultural investment (No 20/2015) – This special report will determine in particular whether non-productive agricultural investment (NPI) is cost-effective and will contribute to the achievement of the objective of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development to manage agricultural land sustainably during the 2007-2013 programming period.
The auditors concluded that although NPI aid contributed to the achievement of the objectives, it was not cost-effective as the costs for 75 % of the projects visited were unduly high.
Many of these projects were fully funded by public funds, although they had clearly profitable features. e auditors visited four Member States, which have spent a total of 80% of the total EU budget on NPIs: Portugal, Denmark, the United Kingdom (England) and Italy (Apulia).
Only five of the 28 projects audited proved cost-effective.
The report warns that lack of cost efficiency may not be limited to the sample, as the problems identified were due to shortcomings in the management and control systems of the Member States.
Non-productive investments are investments that do not generate significant returns or revenues, nor significantly increase the value of the beneficiary's operation, but have a positive impact on the environment. • EU rural infrastructure support: the funds could be used much more efficiently (No 25/2015) – This special report examines whether the European Commission and Member States have achieved a good cost-benefit ratio by financing roads, water systems, schools and other facilities through rural development programmes.
The audit showed that some infrastructure projects have made a positive contribution to rural areas, but that the Member States and the Commission have achieved insufficient cost-benefit ratios in the context of shared management.
The available resources could have achieved much more, and the need for EU rural development funding has not always been clearly explained by the Member States.
The risk of supporting projects that would have been implemented without EU funding was not effectively controlled.
The Commission has been pursuing a more proactive and coordinated approach since 2012.
If properly implemented, this should lead to better financial management in the period 2014-2020.
Under rural development programmes, EUR 13 billion of EU funding was allocated to rural infrastructure from 2007 to 2013.
Our activities 26 100 80 60 40 20 0 Foreign policy 65 billion euros 6% Europe in the world The heading "Europe in the world" covers the external relations of the EU (the "External Policy"), including enlargement issues, as well as EU development and humanitarian aid.
For the 2014-2020 programming period, the EU has allocated 6% of its planned total expenditure, i.e. EUR 65 billion, to these objectives.
The budget for 2015 was EUR 7.5 billion.
Additional funds are made available through the European Development Fund, which is not part of the EU budget and therefore does not fall within the multiannual financial framework. • EU Police Mission in Afghanistan: Mixed Results (No 7/2015) – This special report assesses whether the EU Police Mission (EUPOL) was well planned and coordinated, whether it has received appropriate operational support and appropriate guidance, whether it has contributed to progress in the Afghan National Police and whether its exit has been prepared in an appropriate form.
The audit showed that EUPOL has met the objective of contributing to the development of a sustainable and efficient civilian police force under Afghan ownership.
In an environment characterised by the lack of a fully-functioning Afghan police force, high illiteracy rates and widespread corruption within Afghan police and judicial systems, EUPOL has been able to contribute to the reform of the Ministry of Interior and to the professionalisation of the National Police.
However, given the continuing systemic weaknesses in the police and justice sector in Afghanistan, there is a risk that the results achieved by EUPOL and in the Afghan police sector in general will not be effective after the end of the mission at the end of 2016.
The total cost of EUPOL in the period May 2007 to December 2014 was almost EUR 400 million, with security-related costs accounting for almost one third of this amount.
At the end of 2014, the EU had deployed a total of 32 Common Security and Defence Policy missions, 16 of which are completed and completed and 16 are still under way.
Our activities 27 • EU support for the fight against torture and the abolition of the death penalty (No 9/2015) – This special report assesses the effective promotion of the prevention of torture, the rehabilitation of victims of torture and the abolition of the death penalty under the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights.
The audit showed that while the EU-funded projects have effects, the projects are often not targeted enough and have a limited scope of action, as the funds are distributed according to the watering-pot principle.
Although the allocation of funds was generally appropriate, the Commission did not take sufficient account of the priorities of each country in the field of human rights.
Projects have often been not well coordinated with other EU policies such as development aid and political dialogue.
They were generally carried out by dedicated and competent organisations.
The audit recommendations related to the target orientation of financial resources, better coordination with other EU actions, selection and improvement of project proposals, performance measurement and sustainability of the beneficiary organisations.
The European Union operates through diplomatic channels and grants to non-governmental organisations through the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights.
In the period 2007-2013, some 180 grants totalling more than EUR 100 million were granted to projects to combat torture and abolish the death penalty. • EU support for wood producing countries under the FLEGT Action Plan (No 13/2015) – This special report examines whether the Commission has managed well the support provided under the EU FLEGT Action Plan to combat illegal logging.
The auditors noted that the Action Plan was a welcome initiative but the results were poor overall.
Aid was not granted to wood producing countries on the basis of clear criteria and its impact was diluted due to the large number of competing countries.
The countries concerned have made very different progress.
Insufficient progress is due in particular to the lack of adequate planning by the Commission and clear priorities for allocation of funds to wood-producing countries.
The auditors recommended that the Commission set clear objectives and set the means to achieve them.
Four Member States still have to fully implement the EU Wood Regulation, which was introduced to prevent illegal timber from being imported into the EU market.
In the period 2003-2013, 35 countries received EUR 300 million under the Action Plan.
Two of these countries, Indonesia and Ghana, made good progress towards a complete licensing system for their timber.
However, progress has generally been slow and many countries have had difficulties in overcoming the obstacles to responsible policy-making.
In the 12 years since the Commission launched the Action Plan, no partner country has succeeded in establishing a fully recognised authorisation system.
Our activities 28 • The ACP Investment Facility: does it offer added value?
(No 14/2015) – This Special Report assesses whether the Investment Facility has added value for EU development cooperation with African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries.
The audit showed that the Investment Facility actually adds value to EU development cooperation with ACP countries and is well integrated into the EU's policy objectives.
At the end of 2014, credit lines accounted for 28% of the Facility's portfolio, compared to 14% at the end of 2010.
The increased share reflects the continued importance of the long-term financing provided by the Facility.
The facility also acted as a catalyst in a positive sense by mobilising additional funds.
However, the auditors noted that the contractual obligation to inform final beneficiaries of the financing by the European Investment Bank (EIB) or the Investment Facility is not always met and that technical assistance is not always directed towards small and medium-sized enterprises.
They made recommendations to address these problems.
The ACP Investment Facility, established in 2003, receives its capital from the European Development Fund and is managed by the EIB.
The Facility has approved development projects worth EUR 5.7 billion over the past ten years.
The Facility provides medium to long-term financing and aims to achieve sustainable economic, social and environmental benefits. • Promoting renewable energy in East Africa from the ACP-EU Energy Facility (No 15/2015) – This special report examines whether the Commission has successfully used the Energy Facility to improve access of poor populations to renewable energy in East Africa.
The audit showed that some significant successes have been achieved but that the Facility needs to be monitored even better.
The Commission has made a good selection of the proposed projects, but has not monitored the progress of the project sufficiently closely.
The reports of project managers were of varying quality and the Commission did not make any efforts to enforce reporting obligations.
For projects known to have been affected by serious problems, Commission staff did not make enough on-site visits and reviews in the monitoring framework to complete the information provided by the responsible parties.
The report made recommendations for more stringent selection, monitoring and improved sustainability of future projects.
By mid-2014, a total of 268 million euros were granted, 106 million euros of which were allocated to projects in East Africa, which had by far the lowest access to electricity in Africa.
Our activities 29 • Analysis of risks associated with a result-oriented approach to EU development and cooperation action (No. 21/2015) – The Special Report was prepared in view of the increased interest that has recently been shown in shifting the focus of EU development and cooperation policy away from activities towards results.
The auditors identified nine key risk areas: a inconsistent result-related terminology or a logical chain between measures, outputs, effects and impacts; increased complexity due to the inclusion of cross-cutting issues in EU programmes; the lack of harmonisation of instruments for assistance, the outcome framework and the accountability structures of development partners; weaknesses in evaluation and reporting on results; a lack of consolidated reports or an overview of results obtained through EU assistance; a lack of adequate, relevant, reliable and up-to-date data; a focus on budgetary results as an objective; changes in the context of measures.
The audit showed that these risk areas have been correctly identified by the Commission in numerous different documents.
However, further action is needed to exploit the full potential of the Commission's initiatives and to improve the EU's development and cooperation results.
Against this background, a number of recommendations have been made to which the Commission should take account.
Our activities 30 100 80 60 40 20 0 Financial and economic governance The EU framework for economic governance aims to address problematic financial and economic trends, such as excessive government deficits or sovereign debt that can dampen growth and threaten the sustainability of public finances.
Part of this framework is the establishment of the EU Banking Union.
According to the report on the European Banking Authority in 2014, this special report was the second one we published on the subject.
In 2008, Europe faced a financial crisis that turned into a sovereign debt crisis.
The sovereign debt crisis was a result of different factors, including weak banking supervision, inadequate fiscal policies and the difficulties encountered by large financial institutions (and the consequent costs of saving them, which were borne by the general public).
The crisis broke in two waves across the EU Member States, first hitting countries outside the euro area in 2008-2009 and later spreading to the euro area itself.
Our auditors examined how the European Commission managed the financial assistance granted under the Balance of Payments Facility and the European Financial Stability Mechanism during the crisis, for which the Commission raised funds on the capital markets, with the EU budget as a guarantee.
The audit covered the financial assistance granted to Hungary, Latvia, Romania, Ireland and Portugal, with particular emphasis on the role of the Commission in these programmes.
In addition, our auditors analysed the Commission's cooperation with its partners – the European Central Bank (ECB) in Frankfurt and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) in Washington.
They obtained audit evidence through detailed reviews and analyses of documents and through discussions with Commission, national authorities, the ECB and the IMF.
The partners and decisions taken at EU political level were not subject to review.
The audit showed that the European Commission was not prepared for the first requests for financial assistance during the 2008 financial crisis, as warning signals were overlooked, largely explaining the initial significant weaknesses in its administrative processes.
The auditors identified four key problem areas of Commission crisis management: different approaches, limited quality control, insufficient monitoring and documentation deficiencies.
In some programmes, the conditions for assistance were less strict and therefore easier to meet.
They also found that the Commission's teams had not sufficiently reviewed important documents, that the underlying calculations were not verified by anyone outside the team, that the work of the experts was not closely monitored and that the review procedure was not sufficiently documented.
Our activities 31 However, the auditors believe that, despite the lack of experience, the Commission has succeeded in fulfilling its new administrative tasks and in launching the financial assistance programmes that are relevant to the reform process, which is a success given the time constraints.
In addition, the auditors noted that the Commission was building up more and more internal expertise in the course of the crisis and cooperating with a wide range of stakeholders in the countries concerned, and that further reforms were also accompanied by improved macroeconomic monitoring.
For example, the targets of the programmes were met, the adjusted deficit targets were largely met, the structural deficits improved and Member States met much of the conditions of their programmes, albeit with some delays.
In most cases, countries continued to implement the reforms required by the programme conditions and four of the five countries were able to adjust the current account more quickly than expected.
Our auditors pointed out that there are still a number of weaknesses and that the Commission must improve its procedures for managing financial assistance.
We have made a number of recommendations to the European Commission to ensure that financial assistance will be managed more effectively in the future when Member States that have difficulties ask for support.
The report has received a broad response, particularly in the European media, but also in the United States and Australia.
Like our other special reports, Mr Baudilio Tomé Muguruza, our Member responsible for the report, is presenting it to the addressees in the European Parliament and in the Council.
Test team (from left to right): Didier Lebrun, Ignacio García de Parada, Kristian Sniter, Josef Jindra, Giuseppe Diana, Baudilio Tomé Muguruza, Adrian Savin, Daniela Hristova, Zacharias Kolias, Marco Fians and Daniel Costa de Magalhães.
Our activities 32 • EU supervision of credit rating agencies is based on sound foundations, but is not yet fully effective (No. 22/2015) – This special report examines whether the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) has successfully established itself as an EU supervisor through credit rating agencies.
The financial crisis in 2008 has brought the rating agencies and their influence on the financial markets to the fore.
At that time, rating agencies in Europe were hardly regulated.
The audit showed that while ESMA has laid good groundwork, its rules and guidelines are not complete and that there are still significant risks to be addressed.
The auditors found that ESMA was able to shorten the average length of the registration procedure, but the procedure remains complex.
Although rating methods should be strict, systematic and consistent and subject to validation, ESMA's activities focus on whether the methods are strict.
The current Eurosystem credit assessment framework does not guarantee that all credit rating agencies registered with ESMA operate on an equal footing, creating a two-class market structure that puts small credit rating agencies in an unfavourable position.
The auditors made some recommendations to ESMA regarding the registration procedure, traceability of the risk identification procedure, supervisory procedures and IT systems. • Technical assistance for Greece: Improved delivery requires a stronger outcome orientation (No 19/2015) – This special report examines whether the Task Force for Greece has fulfilled its mandate and whether technical assistance for Greece has contributed effectively to the reform process.
The Task Force was set up by the Commission in 2011 to support the economic adjustment of Greece with numerous technical assistance measures.
The auditors examined whether the Task Force has fulfilled its mandate and whether technical assistance has contributed effectively to the reform.
They obtained evidence from the Commission, service providers, Greek ministries and other stakeholders.
The audit showed that the Greek authorities received technical assistance under the mandate, but that the reforms have not always made sufficient progress.
Due to the urgency of the situation, the Task Force was set up in the shortest time possible without a full analysis of other options or a separate budget.
The Task Force did not have a bundled, comprehensive strategy document to provide technical assistance or set priorities.
The assistance provided was relevant and largely in line with the programme requirements, and the Task Force developed a flexible and diversified implementation system. However, there were weaknesses at project level.
Greek Parliament Building, Athens, Greece.
Our activities 33 Others 8.2% 100 80 60 40 20 0 VAT 12.8% TEM 13.3% GNI 65.7% Revenue The EU budget is mainly financed by revenue from three types of own resources.
These include own resources based on gross national income (GNI) and VAT (VAT) and traditional own resources (TEM), in particular customs duties on products imported into the EU and sugar levies.
In addition, the EU receives taxes levied on the salaries of EU staff, contributions from third countries to certain EU programmes and fines from companies that violate EU rules and regulations.
EU expenditure must be fully covered by revenue.
In 2015, revenue amounted to EUR 141.3 billion. • Combating intra-Community VAT fraud: Further measures are needed (No 24/2015) – This special report examines whether the EU is effectively combating intra-Community VAT fraud.
Organised crime means that the European Union is evading VAT revenues of between 40 billion and 60 billion euros per year.
As exports of goods and services from one EU Member State to another are exempt from VAT, criminals in both countries can fraudulently tax.
This will prevent both the countries concerned and the EU from receiving revenue.
The audit identified significant weaknesses which indicate insufficient effectiveness of the current system.
The EU has a wide range of instruments to combat intra-Community VAT fraud, but some of these instruments need to be improved or applied more uniformly.
In most Member States visited, there are no effective cross-checks between customs and tax data; Member States' tax authorities exchange VAT information, but there are problems with the accuracy, completeness and timeliness of the data; there is a lack of cooperation and overlaps of competence between administrative, judicial and law enforcement authorities.
Action must be taken by the Member States, the European Parliament and the European Commission to improve the system.
Our activities 34 opinions in 2015 We also contribute to improving EU financial management with our opinions on proposals for new or amended legislation with financial implications.
These opinions will be delivered at the request of the other EU institutions and used by the legislative authorities – Parliament and Council – in their work.
We can also issue position papers and analyses on other issues on our own initiative.
In 2015, we published eight opinions on a number of key areas: • Opinion No 1/2015 on a proposal for an amendment to the Regulation on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union; • Opinion No 2/2015 on a proposal for a revision of the financial regulation of the Community Plant Variety Office; • Opinion No 3/2015 on a proposal for a proposal for a financial regulation of the Committee on Single Resolution; • Opinion No 4/2015 on a proposal for a Regulation on the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI) (further details in the box); • Opinion No 5/2015 on a proposal for a modification of the Regulation of the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market; • Opinion No 6/2015 on a proposal for a modification of the financial regulation of the Committee for Single Resolution; • Opinion No 7/2015 on a proposal for a modification of the Regulation on traditional, VAT and GNI own resources and measures to provide the necessary cash resources; • Opinion No 8/2015 on a proposal for a modification of the financial regulation for the 11th European Development Fund.
Focus: Statement on EFSI In response to the decline in investment since 2007, the Commission launched an "Investment Plan for Europe" in November 2014.
The investment offensive is based on the logic of intervention that there is a high investment demand in Europe and numerous economically viable projects for which funding sources are sought.
The challenge is to make productive use of savings and financial liquidity to promote sustainable employment and growth in Europe.
The investment offensive is to be implemented without burdening national budgets and new debt.
From this investment plan to its full implementation, the Commission expects to create between 1 million and 1.3 million new jobs and mobilise additional (mainly long-term) investment funds of at least EUR 315 billion in the period 2015-2017. The Commission's initiative is highly anticipated.
To contribute to the success of this initiative, we drew attention in our opinion to issues relating to governance and legal framework, accountability and external audit rules, and financial liabilities to public budgets.
We also pointed out that instruments in which the EU cooperates with the private sector should be given an adequate level of transparency and accountability for public funds.
The performance of these instruments should also be measured by the extent to which the objectives of the activities financed are achieved.
We pointed out that the Commission and the European Investment Bank have not clearly described the agreements in the proposal.
Our opinion has been taken into account by the regulatory authorities in Regulation (EU) 2015/1017 on EFSI.
Our activities 35 Contribution to EU accountability through high-level events and conferences We hold conferences on issues where we have identified risks and where our audit expertise can contribute to EU accountability, thereby raising awareness of the importance of sound financial management and control of EU finances.
In 2015, we organised the two conferences described below, which are in line with our strategic goal of working with our partners in the process of EU accountability.
During the year, we also organised seminars with internal and external experts on our premises to share knowledge about recent developments in EU policy and to use information for the planning and execution of our audits.
For example, a seminar was held in October, focusing on the progress made in the reform of the common agricultural policy, and representatives of the Commission's Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development also attended the seminar.
Court Conference on Energy Security in the EU On 5 May 2015, we held a conference on energy security in the EU in Brussels to provide stakeholders from EU institutions, Member States, energy industry and universities with a neutral and independent platform to discuss the challenges facing the EU in the field of energy security.
Our President, Mr Vítor Caldeira, opened the conference and Maroš Šefčovič, one of the Commission's Vice-Presidents, gave an introductory speech.
Our members Szabolcs Fazakas and Phil Wynn Owen From left to right: Szabolcs Fazakas, Maroš Šefčovič, Vítor Caldeira and Phil Wynn Owen. chaired the conference, which included panel discussions on the two main areas: obstacles to the completion of the internal energy market and Ukraine's important contribution to European energy supply as a major transit country.
We organised this conference, as the EU is facing a number of major challenges in this area, which are related to each other.
These include the creation of an internal energy market to improve the competitiveness of the European economy, the fight against climate change and the increase of energy security.
In our tests, we are increasingly focusing on energy and climate issues.
We have already produced special reports on issues such as the internal energy market and security of energy supply, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
In addition, further reports are planned in this area, including on EU support to Ukraine and on EU spending on climate action, as well as a landscape analysis on energy and climate issues in the EU.
Our aim is to create added value for the EU's energy policy, and with this conference we have shown that we also want to support a democratic debate on these issues.
Our activities 36 Conference of the Court on the Future of Development Assistance From 20 to 21 October 2015, we held an international conference on European development assistance in Luxembourg on the occasion of the European Year for Development, the adoption of the new United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council of the European Union after 2015.
At the beginning of the two-day conference chaired by our member Danièle Lamarque, our President, Vítor Caldeira, followed by the Luxembourg Minister for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Affairs, Romain Schneider, on behalf of the EU Presidency, by the Chairman of the European Parliament's Development Committee, Linda McAvan, the EU Commissioner for Development, Neven Mimica and the United Nations Under-Secretary-General, Grete Faremo.
The conclusions of the conference were summarised by Marc Angel, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign and European Affairs and the Defence of the Luxembourg Chamber of Deputies.
The EU is the world's largest donor of development aid and cooperates with many public and private partners, including international organisations, foundations, non-governmental organisations and states.
It is becoming increasingly important to ensure the effectiveness of the aid, which can be achieved by fully respecting the criteria for its allocation and evaluation.
In this context, the Court plays a major role.
The new United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for the period 2015-2030 are more ambitious than the previous Millennium Development Goals and encourage those to "think and act differently."
Participants agreed that development aid must be aligned with environmental, energy and migration policies and other policy areas and that new stakeholders must be involved.
In addition, development agencies need to adapt to the increasing diversification of financing and financial instruments: innovative financial instruments contribute to a greater leverage and closer alignment with market conditions, but at the same time make it more difficult to make financial decisions and determine the added value of aid.
The European Commission gave a presentation on what a results-oriented budget should look like, which would clarify how EU funds are spent and what results are achieved.
The Court also participates in the joint interinstitutional working group set up for this purpose.
Our activities 37 Relations with the addressees The European Parliament and the Council of the European Union The value of our contribution to EU accountability depends to a large extent on the benefits of our key partners in the legislative and accountability process from our work results and products.
These partners are the political bodies responsible for public oversight of the use of EU funds: the European Parliament, the Council of the European Union and national parliaments.
In accordance with our strategy for the period 2013-2017, we have given particular attention to improving our working relations with Parliament and the Council.
The President and the Members of the Court shall maintain regular contacts with the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT), which is our main partner.
In 2015, President Vítor Caldeira presented our annual work programme and our annual reports in two CONT meetings. He also presented the annual reports in two plenary sessions of Parliament and participated in the discharge debate.
At the initiative of Ville Itälä, our institutional relations member, President Caldeira also presented our 2015 work programme at the Conference of Committee Chairs and was informed about its priority areas to plan our 2016 work programme.
In October 2015, the CONT paid the Court a working visit, continuing the practice of annual bilateral meetings at the Court's premises in Luxembourg. In addition, our representatives participated in visits to Member States (Greece) and recipient countries (Serbia) organised by the CONT.
In 2015, our members represented the Court in 29 CONT meetings to discuss our annual and special reports.
In addition, our members presented nine special reports to the committees concerned.
We also organised a joint meeting with Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and the Environment to discuss issues of common interest and started working with Parliament's Scientific Service to promote a more efficient exchange of knowledge between our audit chambers and the service.
We have also worked more closely with the Council to strengthen and improve relations with the Council and its respective Presidency.
In November, President Caldeira and Pierre Gramegna, Luxembourg's finance minister and President of the Council, "Economy and Finance", met during the Luxembourg Presidency to discuss follow-up measures based on our 2014 annual report in the context of the 2014 discharge procedure.
We presented our work programme for 2015 and 15 special reports to various Council working groups.
We also presented the various chapters of the annual report to the Council's Committee on Budgets as the basis for the discharge procedure.
Annual meeting of Court representatives with the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.
Our activities 38 Strengthening partnerships with national parliaments and authorities During the year, we worked closely with our addressees in the Member States.
We systematically informed the national parliaments of our work.
The President and the Court members also presented the annual report to the national parliaments and authorities of most Member States.
We also held meetings with representatives of national parliaments and authorities in the Court's premises and in the Member States.
We continued our initiative, launched in 2014, to organise high-level visits to EU Member States to deepen our partnerships with national authorities responsible for managing and auditing EU finances.
In April 2015, a high-level delegation from the Court visited Poland to highlight the importance of public financial control and accountability for EU funds, to improve the Court's visibility in this respect and to initiate a dialogue with the relevant Polish authorities.
These included meetings with Polish President Bronisław Komorowski, head of the Prime Minister's Registry, both chambers of parliament, state and local authorities, and in particular the SAIs of Poland.
The discussions focused on accountability and public control, and our recent Landscape analysis of EU accountability and public financial control rules has also been highlighted.
Meetings with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development provided an opportunity to discuss our landscape analyses, the results of relevant audits and best practices.
Our delegation visited two projects funded by EU funds. One is managed by the public authorities, the other by a private beneficiary.
The high-level visit to Poland was complemented by visits to the Czech Republic (June 2015) and Bulgaria (November 2015).
In the Czech Republic, our representatives met with the President of the Czech Republic Miloš Zeman, the Prime Minister and representatives of Parliament.
They also attended a joint meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies, which discussed the results of audits in the areas of common agricultural policy and cohesion of the previous programming period, which were relevant for the Czech Republic.
During this visit, our representatives contributed to the conference on electronic data and its importance for future audits organised by the SAIs of the Czech Republic.
During the visit to Bulgaria, our delegation met with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr Rosen Plevneliev, Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, President of Parliament, Ms Tsetska Taschva and other representatives of the Parliament.
In addition, the delegation attended a conference on the importance of external audit for effective public sector management, which was held on the 135th anniversary of the establishment of the SAIs of Bulgaria and the 20th anniversary of the resumption of their activities.
From left to right: Vítor Caldeira (President of the European Court of Auditors), Krzysztof Kwiatkowski (President of the SAIs of Poland) and Augustyn Kubik (Polish Member of the European Court of Auditors).
Our activities 39 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions The Court cooperates with other Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCs) mainly through • the SAIs Contact Committee of EU Member States; • the network of SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries; • international organisations for public financial control bodies, in particular the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) and their European Regional Group (EUROSAI).
Contact Committee of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the EU Member States The EU Treaty provides that the Court and the national audit bodies cooperate with confidence, while maintaining their independence.
Cooperation with the SAIs of EU Member States is actively carried out within the Contact Committee, including an annual meeting and various working groups, networks and task forces dealing with specific issues of common interest.
In 2015, the Contact Committee met in Riga.
At its meeting, the members of the Contact Committee spoke about the European Fund for Strategic Investments (EFSI), the prevention and control of irregularities and fraud, and the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
Questions on the SSM were also addressed.
The Contact Committee adopted a declaration on the rules for accountability and financial control of the Single Supervisory Mechanism addressed to national parliaments and governments and to the relevant EU institutions and bodies.
The Contact Committee also agreed with the proposal to carry out parallel audits of the SSM and the contribution of the Structural Funds to the Europe 2020 strategy and the underlying risks to the sustainability of public finances.
In November 2015, the Court invited a launch meeting of the Working Group on Structural Funds VII, which should establish a work plan for a new multilateral parallel audit to identify the extent to which EU funding in the fields of education and employment is making an effective contribution to the Europe 2020 strategy.
Network of Supreme Audit Institutions of Candidate Countries and Potential Candidate Countries Cooperation between the Court and the SAIs of Candidate Countries and potential candidates is primarily carried out through a network1 comparable to the Contact Committee.
In the course of 2015, we continued to support the network in carrying out a parallel economic assessment of energy efficiency.
The last workshop on this project took place in May 2015 in the premises of the Court in Luxembourg.
The Court is involved in the preparation of new projects to start in 2016 and focus on audit and audit of accounts.
In May 2015, representatives of the Court took part in an event celebrating the 90th anniversary of the founding of the SAIs of Albania.
On this occasion, President Caldeira and President of the Republic of Albania Bujar Nishani met.
Eight auditors from the SAI network participated in our 2015 internship program.
1 In January 2015, the network included six candidate countries (Albania, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Iceland, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey) and a potential candidate country (Bosnia and Herzegovina).
Since November 2013, Kosovo* has been participating as an observer in the network. * This designation does not affect positions on status and is in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the Kosovo Declaration of Independence.
Our activities 40 Multilateral (INTOSAI – EUROSAI) and bilateral cooperation In 2015, we continued our active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI and EUROSAI, especially in the respective working bodies.
In November 2016, the Court was appointed Deputy Chair of the INTOSAI Technical Standards Committee, effective from the International Congress of Supreme Audit Institutions (INCOSAI).
We also responded to the request of the Ukrainian SAIs, who are chairing the Task Force on Disaster Response (AUA) to host the first meeting of the Task Force.
The Court is also an active member of the EUROSAI Task Force "Test and Ethics" which aims to promote ethical behaviour and integrity in SAIs and public institutions.
The main objective of the Task Force is to establish and strengthen a framework for promoting ethical behaviour by providing SAIs with appropriate practice-oriented guidance and tools to support their day-to-day audit activities.
We attended the 5th joint EUROSAI-ARABOSAI conference, which dealt with the supervision of plans for state rescue, and the 2nd Young EUROSAI conference, which gave young auditors the opportunity to discuss issues on current issues.
We also visited the Global World Leadership Forum of SAIs, whose main theme was the role of public sector auditors in 2030.
The Court maintains good bilateral relations with other SAIs.
In 2015, for example, our delegation participated in an international seminar organised by the SAIs of Poland for auditors from Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine in Warsaw.
The delegation spoke with the SAIs of the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia about their experience of developing and building capacity to prepare for accession to the EU and gave training on our compliance and audit methods.
Cooperation with SAIs in the framework of international peer reviews Peer reviews are a common method of supporting best practices and promoting quality assurance.
The INTOSAI peer reviews subcommittee is responsible for updating the ISSAI 5600 peer review guide (ISSAI stands for International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions).
In 2015, we contributed decisively to the revision of this guide, which will be presented to the INCOSAI Congress for adoption in 2016.
We also played a leading role in the international peer reviews of the SAIs of Latvia, Spain and Switzerland.
The SAIs' expert assessment was very comprehensive and covered methods and procedures for auditing the accounts, compliance and economic audit, as well as the efficiency of the support functions.
The expert assessment of the SAIs of Spain, led by the SAIs of Portugal, also covered many aspects of the functioning of this body.
We were the sole assessor in the expert assessment of the SAIs of Switzerland.
The evaluation assessed the suitability of the SAIs' strategy and their planning and quality control processes.
Our Management 41 The College of the Court The College of the Court is composed of one member from each Member State.
Members shall be appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament, in accordance with the proposals of each Member State, for a term of six years.
Under the Treaty, members shall carry out their duties in full independence and for the general good of the European Union.
The President shall be elected by the members of the Committee from among them for a period of three years.
The terms of office of the President and the members shall be renewable.
Most members are assigned to one of the five chambers, which adopt examination reports, opinions and position papers and take decisions on strategic and administrative issues that are more wide-ranging.
In addition, each member is responsible for his or her own tasks, primarily in the audit area.
The member shall coordinate the respective audit teams with the support of his cabinet.
It then presents the reports, opinions or position papers for adoption by the Chamber and/or the whole College of Court, followed by the Parliament, the Council and other relevant addressees, including the media.
In selected cases and at the initiative of the members, a report may also be presented to the authorities of the Member States concerned.
One of the members – Ville Itälä – is responsible for institutional relations.
In 2015, the Council of the European Union appointed Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) as a member of the Court on a proposal from the Member State and after consulting the European Parliament.
The mandate shall apply from 1 September 2015 to 28 February 2018, i.e. for the remainder of the term of office of the previous Danish member Henrik Otbo, who died suddenly in February 2015.
The College of the Court shall be established on 31 December 2015.
Our management 42 Organigram of the European Court of Auditors President Chamber I Preservation and management of natural resources Chamber II Structural policies, Transport and energy Chamber III External policies Chamber IV Revenue, research and internal policies and European Union institutions and bodies CEAD Chamber Coordination, evaluation, quality assurance and development Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA Portugal Augustyn KUBIK Poland Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Karel PINXTEN Belgium Milan Martin CVIKL Slovenia Igors LUDBORŽS Latvia Jan KINŠT Czech Republic Ladislav BALKO Slovakia Szabolcs FAZAKAS Hungary Louis GALEA Malta Lazaros S. LAZAROS Cyprus Kersti KALJULAID Estonia Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria Hans Gustaf WESSBERG Sweden Pietro RUSSO Italy Kevin CARDIFF Ireland Rasa BUDBERGYT ΡUFT Lithuania George PUFAN Romania Danièle LAMARQUE France Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA Spain Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Phil WYNN VILLI DYN DOWN DOBERY Kingdom of Denmark Netherlands BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY BEY
Our management 43 Court Strategy for 2013-2017: continuous progress Our five-year strategy aims to maximise the value of our contribution to EU public accountability.
Our main priorities for achieving this goal are outlined in the following figure: Many of the initiatives launched under the strategy have already been implemented.
We have expanded the range of outputs, intensified and expanded our relationships with our addressees, accelerated our audit procedures and improved the way we measure our own performance.
In 2015, the Court decided to reform its organisational structure.
In this way, we will take into account the recommendations of the European Parliament on the future role of the Court and the results of the international peer review procedure carried out in 2014 on our economic audits.
The Court's strategic priorities for 2013-2017 — ASSESSMENT OF THE HOF PRODUCTS TO IMPROVEMENT THE EU'S COOPERATION WITH OUR PARTNERS IN THE PROCESS OF THE RECHARGE-COMPETITION OF THE HOF'S PERFORMANCE AND THE LIMITATION OF ITS RECHARGE-COMPETENTITY 03 04 OPTIMALE USE OF THE KNOWLEDGE PROVIDED FOR IN THE HOF AND THE DEPARTMENT OF THE COMPETENCE AND ACCESS TO THE PROFESSIONAL EXPENDITURE OF THE HOF AS PROFESSIONAL AUDIT ORGAN 01 05 02
Our management 44 Reform of the Court OBJECTIVE 1 FURTHER DISCOVERING THE AUDIT AREA OBJECTIVE 2 IMPLEMENTATION OF A TASKS-BASED ORGANISATION MODEL FLEXIBLE REAGING IN A SHORT-CHANGED ENVIRONMENTAL PERIOD FLEXIBLE PREPARATION OF RESOURCES FOR PRE-ACTIONAL AUDIT ASSESSMENT PERIOD OF PRODUCTS BETTER COMMUNICATION ON OUR ROLE AND OUR WORK Preparation of the strategy for the period 2013-2017 Peer review by the SAIs of Germany, France and Sweden Report by the European Parliament on the future role of the Court of Auditors Preparation for a task-based organisation model Flexible and adaptable Court of Auditors 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 - 10 central actions - Consultation - Court decisions - General design - Detailed design - Pilot project - Implementation - Effective from 1.1.2016 - Training and other measures IMPUIP GROUNDPRZ
Our management 45 Flexible response in a rapidly changing environment We have developed a new work planning process that allows us to plan our work on the basis of existing priorities and a comprehensive risk assessment across the entire court.
We now systematically take into account the views of the addressees when planning our work in order to ensure the greatest possible relevance of our reports.
With the support of our institutional member, our President and Members are working with EU addressees, including the committees of the European Parliament.
Flexible provision of resources for priority audit tasks We have organised our staff in flexible teams around specific tasks instead of in units to make it easier to assign priority tasks.
This means that we can now "use the right person for the right job" and thus fully exploit their abilities and potential.
The reform also led to a tighter management of the Court: Head of Unit became senior managers, who shared management tasks under the leadership of the respective director and contributed their expertise in the areas of quality and supervision.
We also strengthen our expertise in audit areas and introduce knowledge transfer tools to further improve our knowledge management processes.
Timely delivery of products We streamlined our testing procedures and simplified our task management so that we can deliver products promptly.
In recent years, we have constantly reduced the average time needed to produce our special reports, and the reform will allow for further reduction.
This is particularly important in the context of the entry into force of the new Financial Regulation.
Better communication about our role and work We have revised our annual report to refer to the headings of the multiannual financial framework, making it easier to use and read more easily.
In the annual report we now report on the main expenditure areas and on performance over several years.
We also strengthened the functions in the areas of communication and relations with the addressees and discontinued a speaker.
Our Management 46 Measurement of Performance Since 2008, we have been using key performance indicators (ZLI) to inform management of progress made in relation to our goals, support the decision-making process and provide our addressees with information on performance.
They reflect our priorities and provide information about our performance and accountability as a professional audit body.
The indicators are used to measure core parameters for the quality and impact of our work, taking into account the position of key stakeholders and the efficiency and effectiveness of our resource use.
The ZLIs have been updated for the period covered by the 2013-2017 strategy.
Quality and impact of our work We evaluate the quality and impact of our reports on the basis of assessments by the addressees and expert reviews.
We also measure our presence in the media.
Assessment by addressees We asked our main addressees – the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets of the European Parliament, the Council's Committee on Budgets, the main audited bodies at the Commission and the EU agencies, as well as the Presidents of the EU-ORCB – to assess the relevance and impact of our reports published in 2015 on a five-stage scale from "very low" to "very high".
The replies show that 90% of our main recipients consider the value of our reports relevant to their work (compared to 94% in 2014). 92% believe that our work has an impact (91% in 2014).
Assessment by the addressees 10% 21% 45% 24% 2% 0% very low 20% medium high 40% very high relevance of reports Probable impact of reports 60% 80% 100% 6% 23% 45% 24%
Our management 47 expert reviews Each year, independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of our reports for quality assessment. In 2015, the reviewers assessed four special reports and the annual reports for the financial year 2014.
They assessed the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "highly valuable" (4).
The experts' assessments in 2015 were higher than ever in the last four years, with a total average of 3.3 for both types of reports.
Follow-up to recommendations We contribute primarily to improving the financial management of the EU by making recommendations to the Commission and other audited bodies in our reports.
Some recommendations can be implemented quickly, while others require more time due to their complexity.
We regularly check to what extent our recommendations have been implemented by the audited bodies.
By the end of 2015, 73% of more than 600 recommendations we had made in 2012-2015 had been implemented.
This represents an increase in the implementation rate of 69% for the recommendations issued in 2011-2014 compared to the 2014 implementation rate.
Review of Court Reports by Experts 2012 2013 2014 2015 3.0 3.0 3.1 3.3 Quality Assessment 01234 Implementation of Court Recommendations after the year of the tax 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% 91% 80 % 50 % 2012 2013 2014 2015
It concerns the strategic objective of raising awareness of the Court, its products, its audit findings and conclusions.
In 2015, we identified some 3,400 online articles that related to our special reports, annual reports and the Court in general.
54% of these were in our audit reports; the other articles referred to the Court and its work in general.
In 2015, the media reported almost twice as much about our annual reports as in 2014.
The number of media reports on our special reports, however, has decreased compared to 2014, largely due to the interest in a specific report from this year (EU-funded airport infrastructure (No. 21/2014), on which more than 800 articles were published).
Efficiency and effectiveness of resource use We assess the efficiency and effectiveness of our resource use according to the extent to which we are able to implement our work programme, carry out audits promptly and ensure the expertise of our employees.
Implementation of the Work Programme We plan our audit and other tasks on the basis of the annual work programme and monitor progress during the year.
In 2015, we implemented our work programme to 88%.
While work on the annual reports and special annual reports was carried out as planned, this was 69% for special reports compared to our very ambitious planning.
The completion of the remaining special reports, which has been delayed due to evidence of audit or unexpected complexity, was transferred to the beginning of 2016.
These special reports mainly concern new or innovative tests, the completion of which can naturally take more time.
The Court's reform project, which is assessed under the heading "other tasks", progressed as planned.
Implementation of the Court's 2015 Work Programme 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% Annual Special Reports Reports Special Annual Reports Other tasks Total 100 % 100 % 69 % 100 % 88 %
Our Management 49 Preparation of the special reports In order for our special reports to have effect, they must be submitted promptly.
In recent years, we have managed to shorten the time needed for audits, largely based on initiatives resulting from the 2013-2017 strategy.
In 2015, we prepared our 25 special reports within an average of 17 months (19 months in 2014), i.e. for the first time in less than 18 months.
We will continue to try to shorten the time needed to prepare our special reports, in particular to respond to the new principle introduced in the amended Financial Regulation.
Professional Training In accordance with guidelines published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we strive to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training (except language courses).
The objective for the professional training of examiners was again exceeded, as it can be seen from the great importance we attach to the development of personnel.
In 2015, when the language courses were taken into account, an average examiner accounted for 9.4 training days.
Processing duration of the special reports published in 2013-2015 100 % 80 % 60 % 40 % 20 % 0% 5 % 1 SB 4 % 1 SB 4 % 1 SB Longer than 26 months 18-26 months 10-18 months 60 % 12 SB 54 % 13 SB 35 % 7 SB 42 % 10 SB 2013 2014 2015 36 % 9 SB 60 % 15 SB Training days per examiner per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Average number of training days for examiners (excluding language courses) Objective ≥ 5 days 6.4 5.8 6.2 2013 2014 2015 Days
Support for 50 audit activities Personnel resources Personnel allocation In 2015, we continued the staff reduction of 1% per year, which is planned for a period of five years (2013-2017), as set out in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of December 2013.
As a result, in 2015, the staffing was reduced from 882 temporary officials to 872 (excluding members, contract staff, seconded national experts and trainees).
The inspectors included 562 staff, including 113 staff in the members' cabinets.
Recruitment The Court's employees have a broad academic and professional background, and the quality of their work and their commitment are reflected in the Court's output.
Our recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions, which consists of both officials and temporary staff.
In 2015, we hired 63 staff: 30 officials, 17 temporary staff, 11 contract staff, four seconded national experts and one consultant.
We also provided internships for 74 graduates for periods of three to five months.
On 31 December 2015, the Court had only 15 vacant posts (1.7% of the total number of posts).
Distribution of the Court's posts on 31 December 2015 Total 891 Total 882 Total 872 31 39 41 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 Examination services 100 137 141 133 147 141 136 576 561 562 Presidential services Administration Translation 0 2013 2014 2015
Supporting audit activities 51 Balance between men and women Like the other EU institutions, we have a policy of equal opportunities in terms of human resources management and recruitment.
For several years we have been able to maintain a balanced proportion of men and women among our employees.
The graph shows the proportion of men and women by level of responsibility as at 31 December 2015. These proportions have hardly changed in recent years.
Our action plan on equal opportunities aims to achieve a balanced share of men and women at all levels.
According to the latest recruitment waves, 50% of employees in grades AD 5 to AD 8 are women (an increase compared to 48% in 2014).
Renewal in the upper and middle levels of management and the growing proportion of women in the AD function group are expected to increase in the future.
Relationship between men and women at the level of responsibility 35% 65% Assistants – Secretaries Auditors – Boards of Management 59% 41% 69% 31% 0 % 20 % 40 % 60 % 80 % 100 %
Support for audit activities 53 Age profile Age group 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0% 0.3 % 3.0 % 8.0 % 13.7% 9.6% 20.3% 20.9% 19.6% 20 % 25 % 4.1 % 0.6 % 5 % 10 % 15 % The age profile of the active staff on 31 December 2015 shows that 52% of our employees are 44 years of age or younger.
32 of the 69 directors and managers (46%) are 55 years of age or older.
As a result, in the next five to ten years, when these employees retire, they will be re-established in senior management positions.
Support services Professional training The profession of the examiner requires continuous training to keep pace with professional developments and acquire new skills.
In 2015, our employees completed an average of 7.3 days of professional training.
The proportion of language courses in the total number of training days continues to decline.
Language courses accounted for 35% of the total number of training days in 2015 (compared to 43% in 2014).
Our main activities in the field of vocational training concern the modernisation of our training programmes and increased cooperation with learning opportunities within and outside the EU institutions and bodies.
We launched a cooperation with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France) to offer a postgraduate course of study "Audit of public organisations and policies" and a master's degree "Management of public organisations".
Cooperation with the European Commission, which offers language courses for our staff, and with the European Administrative Academy, which has supported us in organising the training on "soft skills" and the ECA training day, has continued.
In addition, we have expanded our course offering even more through individually tailored e-learning courses and training courses in the form of integrated learning.
We also continued our successful series of presentations, which were held by internal and external experts on developments in the field of audit and other topics relating to the work of our auditors.
Finally, we introduced a framework for "Performance Recognition Awards" to award special training outside the Court for the performance of non-executive staff.
Supporting audit activities 54 Translation Translation is an audit support activity that enables us to fulfil our mission and to achieve our communication goals.
In 2015, the total translation volume was more than ever: almost 200 000 pages, an increase of almost 3% compared to 2014.
Around 99% of the translations were completed on time.
In addition to normal translation work, our translators provided linguistic support and interpretation services at internal events and meetings during 26 audit visits throughout the EU.
They also provided support in drafting preliminary observations and special reports, thereby contributing more to the Court's central audit procedures.
Following the review of the translation workflow and the reform of the Court, the Translation Directorate improved its structures in 2015 by introducing assistant pools.
A major project by the Directorate, GroupShare, will lead to significant improvements by further streamlining the work of the assistant pools to create space for efficiency improvements and automation, and thus standardising the procedures of all language teams.
Information technology In 2015, the Information Technologies Directorate focused its efforts on adapting our administrative information systems to support the successful implementation of the Court's reform and preparing developments in the field of knowledge management to support the new organisational structure of the Court.
In addition, all the functions of the full version of the Assyst2 audit documentation system have been introduced for work on the Statement of Assurance, the Economic Audits and related reports, which concludes this major project.
Our new audit management system (AMS) has been put into operation: more than 300 plans have been drawn up in the system and 180 audit tasks have been defined and monitored with the instrument.
Building on the technical foundations for mobility introduced in recent years (the provision of the WLAN network in all the premises of the yard, equipment for all employees with laptops), the Directorate is currently focusing on global mobility, i.e. access to all content in any place, at any time and on all devices.
The project in terms of developing a solution that ensures that employees can access our information on all devices will help to maintain the business operations of the farm and increase efficiency and effectiveness.
The maintenance of business operations during the development and provision of IT solutions was ensured, making critical systems available to 99.82 %.
Support for audit activities 55 Administration and infrastructure The role of the Finance and Support Services Directorate is to provide adequate resources, services and infrastructure to enable the Court to fulfil its mission and achieve its strategic objectives.
The Directorate shall also ensure that the necessary financing, internal control and accounting mechanisms are available to support all the Court's activities.
In 2015, the Directorate continued to focus on making its activities even more efficient and economical.
Because of the extraordinary situation following the terrorist attacks in Paris in November and the subsequent crisis situation in Belgium, we tightened our security measures and acquired the necessary security equipment in the context of public procurement procedures.
Information on public procurement is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Building The yard currently has three buildings ("K1", "K2" and "K3") and offers small areas for its IT center for the recovery of data and a meeting room.
He also offers three offices in Brussels and one office in Strasbourg from the European Parliament.
To ensure the cost-effectiveness of our building policy, we take into account three factors: purchase or rental, follow-up costs and interinstitutional cooperation.
In developing and implementing our building policies, as in all our areas of activity, we strive to establish and meet the highest standards of transparency and accountability.
Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS) The Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS) is a management tool developed by the European Commission for companies and other organisations to assess, report and improve their environmental performance.
We started in 2014 with the development of an environmental management system2 which is in line with the principles of the European EMAS standard, as provided for in the 2009 Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council3.
Our goal is to have EMAS certification by the end of 2016.
In 2015, the EMAS project made the planned progress.
2 The EMAS project at the Court was launched in July 2013.
Regulation (EC) No 1221/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2009 on the voluntary participation of organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS).
Support for audit activities 56 Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union.
Our budget accounts for around 0.087 % of the total EU expenditure and 1.51% of the total administrative expenditure.
In 2015, the overall budget implementation rate was 98,68 %.
Implementation of the 2015 budget Final appropriations Commitments Use of appropriations in % (commitments/commitments) Payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (EUR 1 000) 10 – Members of the institution 10 171 10 054 99 % 9 978 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 94 517 94 118 99 % 94 072 14 – Other staff and external services 4 651 4 559 98 % 4 502 162 – Missions 3 600 3 162 88 % 2 620 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution 2 819 2 753 98 % 1 903 Subtotal Title 1 115 758 114 646 99 % 113 075 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 20 – Buildings 4 143 4 140 99 % 2 071 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 8 557 8 557 100 % 3 940 212, 214, 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 1 110 1 081 97 % 23 – Running expenditure on the operation of the service 1 332 832 and 717
Support for audit activities 57 Budget 2016 The 2016 budget estimates show an increase of 1.94% compared to 2015.
Budget 2016 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 20 – Building 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212, 214, 216 – Mobile and ancillary costs 23 – Current operating expenditure 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications 10 885 98 881 4 876 3 600 2 911 7 347 2 401 10 291 97 420 4 301 3 700 3 080 BUDGET 2016 (1 000 Euro) 2015 (1 000 Euro) Title 1: Members and staff of the institution 161, 163, 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 2 559 2 669 Subtotal Title 1 120 801 118 381 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 7 152 882 785 439 426 706 717 2 365 Subtotal Title 2 14 686 14 525 Total 135487 132 906
Support for audit activities 58 Audit and accountability discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2015, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2013, which means that our annual accounts for 2013 were finally approved.
We have carefully analysed the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility and have also taken appropriate measures in the context of our reform.
We have reported to the European Parliament on our follow-up.
Internal and external audit Internal audit of the Court The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk control issues by giving opinions on the quality of the administrative and internal control systems and recommendations to improve the management of our operations and to promote sound financial management.
The department also supports the work of the external auditor, whose mission is to certify the Court's annual accounts.
Finally, the Internal Audit Service provides information on significant risks and corporate governance issues.
The Internal Audit Service is supervised by a Internal Audit Committee composed of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee regularly monitors progress in the various tasks defined in the Internal Revision Service's work programme.
The Committee also ensures the independence of the Internal Audit Service.
In 2015, the Internal Revision Service prepared special reports on strategic issues such as changes in our annual report, mid-term review of the implementation of our strategy for the period 2013-2017 and follow-up to the implementation of the recommendations of the peer review process and the European Parliament.
Taking into account the recommendations of the Internal Revision Service of 2014, which called for the internal control cycle to be strengthened, we updated our IT security system and formalised the existing risk management framework and existing guidelines.
The Internal Revision Service monitored the implementation of the new guidelines and ensured that their recommendations were taken into account.
We report annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of the internal audit.
External audit of the Court Our annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same transparency and accountability principles to itself as to the bodies it examines.
The auditor's report – PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à r.l. – on our financial statements for the financial year 2014 was published on 15 September 2015.
Supporting audit activities 59 independent auditor's audit opinions – Financial year 2014 On the annual accounts: "We believe that the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the European Court of Auditors' financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2014 and its earnings and cash flows for the year ending on that reporting date in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation.
Declaration by the 60 authorising officer by delegation I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, • that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and • confirms with reasonable certainty that, the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes envisaged and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the appropriate handling of fraud or suspected fraud, — that the costs and benefits of the controls are reasonable.
This security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and on the information available to him, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers by subdelegation, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 25 February 2016 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
The permission to reproduce or reproduce the following photos must be obtained directly from the copyright holder: © EU 2015, source: European Court of Auditors, p. 1 (photo 3), p. 2, p. 5; architects of the European Court of Auditors buildings: Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013) and Paul Noël (1988). © Najwyższa Izba Kontroli (NIK), p. 38 / photo: Krzysztof Andrzejewski.
The Commission's role is to ensure that the Commission's role is fully respected.
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS DE 2017 Activity Report
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2018 Print ISBN 978-92-872-9644-3 PDF ISBN 978-92-872-9665-8 HTML ISBN 978-92-872-9455-5 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi: 10.2865/281586 doi: 10.2865/91294 doi: 10.2865/4624 QJ-AA-18-001-EN-C QJ-AA-18-001-EN-N QJ-AA-18-001-EN-Q
01 With pictures, it is best to bring the past 40 years to life.
The above photos show the everyday work of the many hundred employees who have worked at the farm in the past decades.
A selection of these photos was published on our website (eca.europa.eu) and on social media (@EUauditors) during 2017.
European Court of Auditors 02 About the Court The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the external auditor of the EU and one of the seven institutions of the Union.
The College of the Court has 28 members, one from each EU Member State.
The Court employs around 900 staff from all EU nationalities, composed of auditors and administrative staff.
It was built in 1977 and is based in Luxembourg.
The Court's tasks The Court checks that the EU ensures proper accounting, ensures that its financial rules are properly followed and that the best use is made of the funds available to EU policies and programmes.
Through its audit work, the Court contributes to improving the financial management of the EU and to promoting accountability and transparency.
It warns against risks, provides audit security, points to weaknesses and successes and provides guidance to EU policy-makers and legislators.
The Court makes its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, national parliaments and the general public.
The European Court of Auditors' buildings at the Kirchberg Plateau in Luxembourg, 2017
Content 03 Page 2 European Court of Auditors 4 President's Preface 5 2017 at a glance 6 Our Activities 6 Audits 8 Publications 19 Key Events 21 Relations with institutional addressees 24 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions 26 Our Management 26 The College of Court Members 26 Audit Chambers and Committees 28 Strategy 29 Work Plan 29 Performance Measurement 34 Our Staff 34 Personnel allocation 34 Recruitment 35 Age profile 35 Balance between men and women 37 Support for audit activities 37 Professional training 37 Translation 37 Information technology 38 Buildings 39 Environmental management 40 Auditing of the Court 40 Financial information 42 Internal and external audit 44 Statement by the authorising officer by delegation 45 Annex - Publications in 2017: Special reports, opinions and analysis-based publications
Preface of the President 04 Dear reader, dear reader!
In 1977, the European Court of Auditors began its work – 40 years later, we look back on many successful contributions we have made to public accountability and EU financial management.
In October 2017, an official ceremony was held to mark the jubilee of the Court, attended by your Royal Highnesses of the Grand Duke and the Grand Duchess of Luxembourg, the President of the Republic of Estonia Kersti Kaljulaid, the President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani and the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker.
Their participation in the event is a sign of the importance of the Court as a "financial guarantee" of the European Union.
However, we also looked forward in the course of the year.
We discussed and agreed on a strategy for the remaining three years of the current Multiannual Financial Framework by the end of 2020.
Our citizens need access to clear and reliable information so that they do not lose their confidence in the EU and its institutions.
People must be able to see that the EU is acting with integrity, upholding the rule of law, using public resources with care, pursuing clear political objectives and achieving the results it has promised.
As an external auditor of the Union, we are well positioned to examine these aspects and report on them accordingly.
Throughout the year, we have published special reports on a wide range of EU policies and programmes, as well as analysis-based publications such as landscape analyses and rapid analyses.
We have also drawn up several opinions on legislative proposals and, as in every year, we have produced our annual reports on the EU's general budget and on the European Development Funds, as well as on EU agencies and on many other Union bodies.
This activity report provides a comprehensive overview of our activities in 2017 and contains important information about the Court, its budget and its staff.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne President
05 Our activities Our management • 28 special reports that examine the effectiveness and added value of EU policies and programmes in areas such as youth unemployment, environment, migration and banking union; • a landscape analysis of EU action in the areas of energy and climate change and a rapid analysis of the reduction of staff in EU institutions; • • five opinions on new or amended EU legislation with significant impact on financial management, including an opinion on the Financial Regulation for the • EU budget and an opinion on the financing of European political parties; • annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget and activities under the European Development Funds, together with the accompanying summary report "2016 – Brief information on the audit of the EU; • 55 special annual reports on the annual accounts of the individual agencies, bodies and joint enterprises of the EU that are based in different Member States, including two summary reports; • meetings, seminars and conferences with our institutional addressees and colleagues, such as the meeting of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the EU Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions and conferences on youth unemployment and energy assessment, climate change.
We welcomed two new members: Juhan Parts (Estonia) on 1 January 2017 and Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary) on 1 September 2017. • We issued a new multi-annual strategy that will guide our work and management in the period 2018-2020. We also revised our work planning to ensure a more strategic, coherent and court-wide approach to planning our audit priorities. We also reviewed our risk management policy and strengthened our financial procedures. • We continued the reduction of posts agreed among the EU institutions while also implementing the equal opportunities policy for recruitment and human resources management.
Our activities 06 Audits We carry out various types of audits in the different EU budget areas: • Economic audits – The effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes are considered here.
The focus of these audits of optimal use of funds is on specific management or budgetary issues, which we select on the basis of criteria such as public interest, potential for improvement, risk of inadequate performance or irregularities; • Audits of accounting and compliance audits – This will consider the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions (in particular in the context of the Statement of Assurance) and whether the systems or operations in specific budgetary areas are in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations.
On the basis of the evidence obtained from our audit work, our reports draw clear conclusions on the extent to which the EU's policy objectives have been achieved, as well as on the state of the Union's budgetary and financial management.
This information helps us to make appropriate and relevant recommendations from the point of view of cost efficiency.
Test visits in 2017 The majority of the examination work takes place at the Court's premises in Luxembourg.
At the same time, our auditors also carried out numerous audit visits to the other EU institutions, agencies and bodies, EU delegations, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, and international organisations such as the United Nations, which are involved in the award of EU funds.
We also carry out checks on beneficiaries of EU funds on the ground within and outside the European Union.
These controls will provide us with direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in managing EU policies and programmes, and from the collection and disbursement of EU funds, as well as from the beneficiaries concerned.
Tests are our core activity The frequency and intensity of our audit work in the individual Member States and recipient countries depend on the type of tests we carry out.
In 2017, our auditors spent 3,670 days with on-site inspections in Member States and outside the EU (2016: 4,246 days).
Within the EU, our on-the-spot checks are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKBs) of the Member States visited.
3 670 days on-site audits in the Member States and outside the EU in 2017 In addition, our auditors spent 2 300 days (2016: 2 510 days) with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralised agencies and bodies throughout the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations or the OECD, as well as audit firms.
To obtain and validate audit evidence, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies (such as secure data and documents exchange).
Our activities 07 5 970 audit days in 2017 Spain Italy Poland France Germany United Kingdom Greece Czech Republic Romania Hungary Portugal Bulgaria Estonia Netherlands Ireland Austria Sweden Finland Lithuania Denmark Latvia Slovenia Slovakia Malta Croatia Belgium Cyprus Luxembourg Lebanon Niger Georgia Norway Nigeria Serbia Gabon Angola Switzerland Guinea-Bissau Zimbabwe Burkina Faso Malawi Mali Bosnia and Herzegovina Jordan Barbados United States Ghana Sudan Ethiopia Turkey Myanmar/Burma 293 280 260 377 371 153 EU Member States (3 215 audit days) 5 970 audit days Third countries (455 audit days) EU institutions and bodies (2 300 audit days) 129 125 123 120 116 116 103 93 84 66 55 52 44 32 31 23 23 23 23 18 10 6 9 10 11 11 12 13 13 19 20 20 21 22 23 24 24 26 38 41 46 0 50 100 150 200 300 350 400
Our activities 08 Anti-fraud cases In combating fraud against the EU budget, we work closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
OLAF will then follow up these cases, which will decide on possible investigations and, where appropriate, cooperate with Member States' authorities.
In 2017, we forwarded 13 suspected fraud cases identified in our audits to OLAF Although our audits are not specifically designed to detect fraud, our audit work occasionally encounters cases where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activities.
In 2017, we forwarded 13 cases (2016: 11) of this kind, which were suspected of fraud, to OLAF. The suspicion of fraud arose from our audit activities for the Statement of Assurance for the financial years 2016 and 2017 and for other audit tasks.
Publications Our publications: Special reports, annual reports, opinions and analysis-based publications Our audit reports and opinions form an important link in the EU's accountability chain, as they are used to hold the bodies responsible for the EU's financial management accountable, especially in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
In areas of shared management, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States also play an important role, as in expenditure on agricultural and cohesion measures. Around 80% of the EU budget is implemented in this way.
Our range of publications includes • Special reports which set out the results of selected audits on specific policy or expenditure areas or on budgetary or management issues; • Annual reports which essentially contain the results of audits of the accounts and compliance audits on the European Union budget and on the European Development Funds, but also cover aspects of budgetary management and performance aspects; • Special annual reports on agencies, decentralised bodies and joint undertakings of the EU published separately; • Opinions on new or amended legal acts with significant implications for financial management, which are produced either at the request of another institution or at the Court's own initiative;
Our activities 09 • Analysis-based publications: • Landscape analyses are descriptive and analytical documents on complex, broad policy areas or management issues in which we – often from a cross-cutting perspective – present our experience and our collected knowledge on the selected topic; • Topic papers are similar to Landscape analyses, as they are also descriptive and analytical documents on politics or management, but their topics are more limited; • Rapid Case Reviews compile and present facts related to very clearly defined specific topics or problems.
All publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
In addition, all 2017 special reports, opinions and analysis-based publications are listed at the end of this report.
100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Total: 93 3 28 55 52 Special reports Annual reports** Number of publications in 2017 Analysis-based publications Statements Special annual reports* 2017 * Special annual reports and summary reports on EU agencies and Joint Undertakings. ** Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, the annual report on the European Development Funds and the summary report"2016 – Brief information on the EU audit".
Our activities 10 Annual reports Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2016 In our Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2016, we examined how the EU funds had been used in the financial year under consideration and showed the areas where the risk of EU funds not being used properly was greatest.
In addition, we have specifically assessed all the key areas of the EU budget, based on the headings of the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020, and provided information on budgetary and financial management and performance-related information.
We also analysed why errors had occurred and made recommendations on possible improvements.
Audit of around 1,000 payments made from the EU budget in 2016 to beneficiaries Our auditors examined around 1,000 payments made to beneficiaries in the various areas of expenditure of the EU budget.
This means that we analysed around 1 000 different cases where EU funds were used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries.
The discharge procedure begins with the presentation of our annual report on the financial year 2016 The publication of our annual report is at the beginning of the discharge procedure carried out by the European Parliament in order to implement the EU budget.
On 28 September, we presented our annual report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT) and subsequently to the plenary of the European Parliament and the ECOFIN Council and the national parliaments of the Member States.
Our activities 11 EU annual accounts give an actual picture; share of non-compliant expenditure continued to fall in 2016 Main conclusions 
In 2016, a significant proportion of audited expenditure – claims-based payments (as opposed to reimbursement-based payments) – was not significantly affected by errors. 
However, the Commission should simplify performance measurement, for example by reducing the number of targets and indicators. 
Without these measures, the overall error rate we estimated would have been 1.2 percentage points higher.
However, sufficient information was available to prevent and detect a significant proportion of the errors and to correct them. 
Our activities 12 Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget contains for the first time a limited audit opinion on the regularity of the EU expenditures Lazaros S. Lazarou, the Court member responsible for the annual report Unrestricted audit opinion Error rate is less than 2% Restricted audit opinion Error rate is more than 2%, but only certain budgetary areas are affected Failure assessment Error rate is more than 2%, with the whole budget affected "The annual report for the financial year 2016 is of historical importance, as it is clearly different from the previous reports.
In terms of compliance with the expenditure side, we gave a limited and no longer failed audit opinion for the first time., Comparison between the estimated error rates for EU spending areas (2014-2016) Estimated error rates 5.7 5.6 2014 2015 2016 5.2 4.8 4.4 4.1 3.6 2.9 2.5 2.8 2.7 2.1 0.6 0.5 Expenditure on Economic, Social and Territorial Cohesion 0.2 Competitiveness and natural Europe in resource management World Growth and employment
Our activities 13 Our institutional addressees also need information on the results of EU expenditure "This year's limited audit opinion shows significant improvements in EU finances.
In future, we will reconsider how we are examining the EU budget: − We will take greater account of internal controls carried out at the level of the European Commission and the Member States so that we can better promote accountability and further improve EU financial management. − We will also focus more on performance aspects to ensure that EU funds are used optimally.
Our activities 14 Annual Report on the European Development Funds The European Development Fund (EDF) provides financial support to African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and overseas countries and territories.
The EDFs are financed by the Member States and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and, for some aid, by the European Investment Bank (EIB).
Around one third of the total EDF error rate is due to non-compliance with procurement rules.
Other important types of error include expenditure that is either not actually incurred or not eligible.
Our annual report on the EDFs will be published together with our annual report on the implementation of the EU budget and is available on our website (eca. europa.eu).
Special Annual Reports EU agencies and other bodies and European Joint Undertakings are based in different EU Member States, carrying out specific tasks in areas of utmost importance to EU citizens, such as health, security, freedom and justice, and research.
In 2017, the Court examined whether the agencies' annual accounts were reliable and whether the underlying transactions were in line with the rules.
When we formed our audit opinions on the annual accounts of the agencies, we took into account, if available, the audit work carried out by audit firms.
We also examined Sisnet's communication infrastructure, the European Schools, the contingent liabilities of the Single Resolution Committee and the liquidation of the Galileo Joint Undertaking.
We have worked on consolidating the results and are expected to issue a single report for the agencies in 2018. i Key data EDF budget 2016 3.4 billion euros Audited amount 2.8 billion euros Accounting reliable revenue Non-perfected payments Significantly error-laden (estimated error rate of 3.3%) i Key data Audited by the Court 45 agencies and other EU bodies, 8 joint enterprises Total 2016 budget 5.2 billion euros Total 2016 staff Some 11 000 staff The Court publishes 55 special annual reports, including two summary reports
Our activities 15 agencies (budget of 3.4 billion euros, 10 364 employees) Our audit showed that the annual accounts of all 41 agencies give a true picture of the situation.
The financial operations underlying the annual accounts were legal and proper for all agencies, except the European Asylum Support Office, for which we gave a limited opinion on the basis of non-compliance with public procurement principles.
Joint Undertakings (budget of 1.8 billion euros, 633 employees) The annual accounts of all eight Joint Undertakings were reliable.
They were appropriate in all essential respects to the assets and financial position of the Joint Undertakings and to the results of their operations and cash flows for 2016.
Moreover, the transactions underlying the annual accounts for seven Joint Undertakings were in line with the relevant legislation, except for the ECSEL Joint Undertaking, for which we gave a limited audit opinion, as we could not obtain sufficient assurance as to the reliability of its internal controls on FP7 financial assistance payments.
All special annual reports and the two summary reports are available on our website (eca. europa.eu).
Special Reports In 2017, we published 28 special reports.
In these reports, we examined in particular whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes were achieved, whether the results were achieved in an effective and economic way and whether EU funds have created added value.
We also made recommendations for improvements in terms of financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste or achieving the policy objectives more cost-effectively.
The special reports will focus on the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes.Our special reports will focus on issues relevant to the EU, such as the sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, the creation of growth and promotion of inclusion, challenges related to migration and global development, the internal market and banking union, and ensuring the accountability and economic viability of the European Union.
At this point, we will look at two of these 28 special reports: a special report on food waste, which dealt with the question of whether EU policies were appropriate to tackle this problem along the entire food supply chain, and a special report on the Greek financial crisis, which examined how the EU reacted to the financial and debt crisis in one of its Member States through economic adjustment programmes.
Our activities 16 COMPETITIVENESS FOR GROWTH AND EMPLOYMENT ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND TERRITORIAL COHESION • Programme conclusion • Partnership agreements • Ex ante conditionalities • Financial corrections • Signalling in rail transport • Single European Sky • SME Guarantee Facility • Youth unemployment • Drinking water Special reports: Special reports of the Court in 2017 EUROPE IN THE WORLD • Honduras • Tunisia • Disaster management • Mobilisation of domestic revenues in Africa • Registration centres for migrants (hotspots) • Trafficking in human beings • Trust fund Bêkou • Election monitoring ADMINISTRATIVE RESOURCES Special reports: Special reports: • Food waste • Natura 2000 • Certification bodies • Fisheries control • Young farmers • Rural development • Greening the CAP Special report: ACCOUNTS Customs controls Special report: Court of Justice of the European Union Financial and Economic Affairs
Our activities 17 Special Report: Combating food waste: an opportunity for the EU to improve the resource efficiency of the food supply chain Food waste is a global problem Food waste is a global problem that has become more and more central to public and political discussion in recent years, especially in view of the need to feed the growing world population.
Current estimates suggest that around one third of the world's food produced for human consumption is wasted or lost, resulting in high economic and environmental costs.
The EU auditors examined the role the EU can play in combating food waste The Court's auditors looked in particular at the measures taken so far and the way in which the various EU policy instruments work to reduce food waste.
The focus was on avoiding food waste and facilitating food donation, as these two aspects are given the highest priority in the fight against food waste.
Our auditors interviewed the Commission staff responsible for the policy in question, carried out file checks and carried out audit visits in five Member States: Italy (Lazio), the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania and Finland.
They visited the relevant ministries and made on-site visits.
They also consulted relevant stakeholders in the areas of food production, retail trade, research and charities. "The EU can and should do more to effectively combat food waste, " said EU auditors. The auditors concluded that while food waste could be combated through a number of EU policies, this potential is not exploited.
The approach taken so far remains fragmented and inconsistent, and coordination at Commission level is inadequate.
Our report identified a number of untapped opportunities and potential improvements that would not require new legislation or additional public funding, and recommended that the auditors adapt existing policies more closely and set a clear policy objective of reducing food waste.
The report was submitted to the Committee of the European Parliament on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, as well as to the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council of the EU and a number of national parliaments throughout the EU.
Both the European Parliament and the Council welcomed the report and agreed with the conclusions it contained.
The report also received a considerable response from the media, especially social media.
Our Activities 18 Special Report: The Commission's role in the Greek financial crisis Greece needed support to ensure its financial stability The 2008 financial crisis followed an economic downturn and a debt crisis in Europe, which made the weaknesses of the Greek economy apparent.
In April 2010, Greece was no longer able to finance itself on the financial markets and requested financial assistance from the euro area Member States and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Since then, Greece has participated in three economic adjustment programmes managed by the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the IMF, the so-called "troika".
The third programme also involved the European Stability Mechanism (ESM).
The total amount of support of EUR 368.6 billion was linked to political constraints jointly established by the Greek authorities and the lenders.
These programmes aimed at stabilising the economic situation in Greece by meeting the financial needs of the Greek economy, thereby preventing the crisis from spreading to the rest of the euro area.
In return, Greece committed itself to carrying out far-reaching structural reforms.
The EU auditors examined whether the Commission had adequately managed the economic adjustment programmes This audit is part of the Court's series of economic audits carried out in recent years, which covered the measures and reforms initiated in response to the 2008 financial crisis.
Our auditors assessed how the Commission dealt with the first two programmes for Greece and how the third programme had been designed.
They reviewed the documents on EU financial assistance programmes, analysed the programme conditions and interviewed Commission officials, national authorities (such as specialist ministries), the Bank of Greece, business associations and stakeholders, as well as IMF, ESM and OECD staff. "Economic adjustment programmes for Greece: despite shortcomings, progress in the reform process, " EU auditors concluded that economic adjustment programmes for Greece had provided financial stability in the short term and made progress in the reform process possible.
However, the programmes in Greece have only brought about a limited recovery.
In addition, the auditors found that the Commission had no experience in managing such a process, that the conditions of the programmes were neither sufficiently prioritized according to importance nor embedded in a broader strategy for Greece and that the macroeconomic assumptions of the programmes were on clay feet.
This special report was submitted to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and to institutional stakeholders in Greece.
The report was the subject of comprehensive media coverage and achieved the largest media response from all the special reports we published in 2017.
Our Activities 19 Key Events 40th Anniversary of the European Court of Auditors 12 October 2017, Luxembourg Congress Centre Plenary Room The 40th anniversary of the establishment of our institution was celebrated with an official ceremony in the presence of your Royal Highnesses of the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess of Luxembourg and Luxembourg Prime Minister Xavier Bettel.
The ceremony was opened by our President Klaus-Heiner Lehne, followed by speeches by Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia, and Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission.
In addition to the ceremony, an annual conference was held to meet the presidents of the EU Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCs) (the EU Con-Tact Committee), as well as the presidents of the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries.
From left to right: Henri Grethen, Member of the Court; Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister of Luxembourg; Kersti Kaljulaid, President of the Republic of Estonia; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Her Royal Highnesses, Grand Duchess and Grand Duke of Luxembourg; Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament; Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission
Our activities 20 Conference of the Court of Youth Employment – Addressing challenges and finding solutions 10 May 2017, European Parliament, Brussels This conference was organised after the publication of our Special Report on the Youth Guarantee, which – as in other reports – examined the effectiveness of EU policies in addressing the problem of youth unemployment in EU Member States.
During the conference, Iliana Ivanova, the rapporteur, and the auditors discussed with high-level representatives of EU institutions, employment agencies and young people whether EU policies should deliver results and how best to proceed in the future.
Court Conference on EU Action in the Energy and Climate Change 17 October 2017, European Parliament, Brussels This conference was an integral part of our work on the Landscape Analysis on EU Action in the Energy and Climate Change sectors, which we published in September 2017 and later presented at the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP23) in Bonn.
The Court's conference provided a platform for stakeholders and key actors in this area, both public and private, to discuss future challenges.
It was organised jointly by the Court and the European Parliament's Scientific Service.
The conference was opened by Phil Wynn Owen, the rapporteur, and Jerzy Buzek, the chairman of the European Parliament's Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
The conference was attended by representatives of Member States, EU institutions, Supreme Audit Institutions, NGOs and think tanks, as well as members of the European Parliament (MEP), scientists and our auditors.
From left to right: Phil Wynn Owen, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Jerzy Buzek, Member of the European Parliament; Anthony Teasdale, Director-General of the European Parliament's Scientific Service From left to right: Marianne Thyssen, Member of the Commission; Pavel Telička, Vice-President of the European Parliament; Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors; Valdis Dombrovskis, Vice-President of the European Commission; Iliana Ivanova, Member of the European Court of Auditors; Martina Dlabajová, Member of the European Parliament
Our activities 21 Court Symposium on Regulatory Impact Assessment 23. the 24th of November 2017, European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg The two-day symposium, which discussed the subject of regulatory impact assessment, attracted around 100 representatives from universities, think tanks, research centres, international organisations and European, national and regional institutions.
During the symposium, contributions were presented and discussed, which had been submitted by the participants in an open call.
The symposium was led by Danièle Lamarque, a member of the Court, and organized in collaboration with the scientific journal "Politiques et management public".
This is crucial because the impact of our work depends largely on the benefits of our audit results and recommendations.
It is therefore also important that we take into account their concerns and proposals when planning our annual work programme.
European Parliament In February 2017, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne presented the Court's work programme for 2017 to the parliamentary body coordinating the work of the European Parliament's committees (conference of committee presidents).
It invited all Parliament's standing committees to propose possible audit tasks for the 2018 work programme.
Three quarters of the parliamentary committees submitted proposals, of which we have now taken account of about two thirds in our work.
Exchange of views with the Conference of the Committee Chairs of the European Parliament chaired by Cecilia Wikström
Our activities 22 In April 2017, President Lehne took part in the debate in the plenary session of the European Parliament on the discharge procedure for 2015.
In September 2017, he presented the Court's annual report on the financial year 2016 to the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control (CONT) and in October 2017 to the plenary.
The parliamentary group chairmen meeting in the Conference of Presidents invited President Lehne to their meeting in November 2017 to discuss the Court's strategy and work programme.
For our members, it is common practice to present our reports and other results to the CONT.
During the year, we gave nearly 60 lectures to this committee.
The members of the Court shall also exchange views with other standing committees and delegations.
In 2017, we presented our reports to these committees and delegations in 23 meetings, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, the Committee on Regional Development and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
In addition, our members attended the meetings of the coordinators of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, as this particular interest in our audit work had been expressed.
Parliament also invited us to present our special report on registration centres for migrants (hotspots) at its conference on migration management.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament, at a press conference following the meeting with the parliamentary group chairmen, November 2017, Strasbourg Council During the Maltese Presidency, President Lehne and Court Member Leo Brincat (Malta) met the Maltese Minister for European Affairs Helena Dalli and the Parliamentary Secretary of State for European Funds and the social dialogue Aaron Farrugia in Valletta, Malta, in June 2017.
In September 2017, during the Estonian Presidency, President Lehne, Court Member Juhan Parts (Estonia) and the institutional relations member Rimantas Šadžius met with Estonian Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste in Tallinn.
During the year, the representatives of both Council Presidencies also visited the Court in Luxembourg.
In November 2017, President Lehne presented our annual report to the EU Finance Ministers at the ECOFIN Council in Brussels.
At work level, our main contact person is the Council's Committee on Budgets, which deals with all financial matters, including the discharge procedure.
In 2017, our auditors attended several meetings of the other Council preparatory bodies to present the Court's reports, mainly in the Working Groups "Structural measures", "Environment", and "Agrofinan-aspects".
The Maltese Minister of Finance Edward Scicluna (right) will visit the European Court of Auditors on 29 March 2017.
The photo also shows court member Leo Brincat (left) and court president Klaus-Heiner Lehne (middle).
Our activities 23 Member State governments and parliaments During the year, President Klaus-Heiner Lehne met a number of high-level government representatives in the EU Member States, including Polish President Andrzej Duda in Warsaw, Portuguese President Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa and Portuguese Prime Minister António Costa in Lisbon, Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy in Madrid, and French Minister for European Affairs Nathalie Loiseau and French Minister for Government Action and Public Budget Gérald Darmanin in Paris.
During his visits, he was accompanied by one of the court members: Janusz Wojciechowski (Poland), João Figueiredo (Portugal), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain) and Danièle Lamarque (France).
Meeting with Polish President Andrzej Duda (Warsaw, February 2017) Meeting with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy (Madrid, March 2017) In 2017, our members presented the Court's Annual Report for the 2016 financial year to national parliaments in 14 Member States: Czech Republic, Greece, Spain, Cyprus, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Finland and Sweden.
They also presented several special reports to the relevant national parliamentary committees.
Meeting with the French Minister for Government Action and Public Budget Gérald Darmanin (Paris, December 2017)
Our activities 24 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions Contact Committee of Supreme Audit Institutions of EU Member States In 2017, we hosted and chaired the annual meeting of the Contact Committee of Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKB) of the 28 EU Member States.
The discussions focused on the role of SAIs in restoring the confidence of EU citizens in national and supranational state institutions.
In addition, the Court took part or participated in the work of the working bodies on the following topics: European Banking Union, Structural Funds, Europe 2020 strategy, audit of fiscal policy, VAT, public accounting principles in EU Member States (EPSAS), prevention and control of irregularities and fraud.
The SAIs network of candidate countries and potential candidate countries We also support the SAIs of candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Kosovo*, Montenegro, Serbia and Turkey), primarily through a network comparable to the Contact Committee.
In 2017, nine SAI auditors from the network participated in our internship program.
We also actively contributed to several meetings and activities of this network, including addressing issues such as combating fraud and corruption, and organising accounting and compliance audit workshops.
We also participated in a parallel audit of the public procurement sector carried out under the auspices of the SAIs of Sweden.
The purpose of this meeting was to adopt a work programme for 2018 and beyond. * This designation does not affect positions on status and is in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244/99 and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on the Declaration of Independence of Kosovo.
Discussions between representatives of the EU Contact Committee at the European Court of Auditors conference room Meeting of the EU Contact Committee, 12-13.
Our activities 25 INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2017, we continued our active participation and participation in the activities of INTOSAI, in particular in our role as Deputy Chair of the Committee for Technical Standards and as a member of the Subcommittee for Auditing Accounting and Accounting, the Subcommittee for Auditing Compliance with Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits.
We also took an active part in the activities of other INTOSAI working bodies and EUROSAI working bodies.
Our mandate as a member of the EURO-SAI Bureau ended with the X. EUROSAI Congress in May 2017. • INTOSAI – International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions • EUROSAI – European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions EUROSAI Working Group "Environment Audit", October 2017, European Court of Auditors, Luxembourg
Our Management 26 The College of Court Members The term of office of the Court's members is six years; reappointment is permitted.
Members shall perform their duties in full independence for the general good of the EU.
They take an oath to the Court of Justice of the European Union when they take office.
The College has 28 members, one from each Member State.
Each Member shall be appointed by the Council of the EU after consulting the European Parliament in accordance with the proposals of the respective national government.
In 2017, the Council appointed two new members: • Juhan Parts (Estonia), who took office on 1 January 2017; • Ildikó Gáll-Pelcz (Hungary), who took office on 1 September 2017.
President Members shall elect a President from among their number for a period of three years; re-election shall be permitted.
The role of the President is that of a Primus inter Pares ("First among equals").
In addition to his other responsibilities, the President shall supervise and represent the Court's tasks.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany) was elected President in September 2016.
Examination chambers and committees The members are assigned to one of the Court's five examination chambers.The chambers accept examination reports, opinions and other analysis-based publications.
The Chambers are under the direction of a Doyen elected by the members from among their members.
Each member is responsible for his or her specific audit tasks.
Members are supported by their cabinet.
As of December 2017, the five examination chambers were headed by the following Doyens: Phil Wynn Owen (United Kingdom), Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria), Karel Pinxten (Belgium), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain) and Lazaros S. Lazarou (Cyprus).
Danièle Lamarque (France) chaired the Quality Control Committee in the audit area.
Rimantas Šadžius (Lithuania) was responsible for coordinating the Court's interinstitutional relations.
Decisions on more far-reaching strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President.
The members of the Court of Auditors met at 21 College meetings in 2017.
Photo: College meeting of 7 September 2017
Our management 27 Organigram of the European Court of Auditors (as at 31 December 2017) President Chamber I Sustainable use of natural resources Phil WYNN OWN United Kingdom Nikolaos MILIONIS Greece Janusz WOJCECHOWSKI Poland Samo JEREB Slovenia João FIGUEIREDO Portugal Klaus-Heiner LEHNE Germany Chamber II Investments for Cohesion, Growth and Integration Iliana IVANOVA Bulgaria Henri GRETHEN Luxembourg Ladislav BALKO Slovakia George PUFAN Romania Oskar HERICS Austria Chamber III External policies, security and justice Karel PINXTEN Belgium Hans Gustaf WESSBERG Sweden Ville ITAEL Finland Bettina JACOBSEN Denmark Juhan PARTS Estonia Chamber IV Market regulation and competitive economy Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA Spain Kevin CARDIFF Ireland Neven MATES Croatia Alex BRENNINKEIJER Netherlands Rimantas ŠADŽIUS Lithuania Ildicho GÁLL-PELCZ Hungary Chamber V Financing and management of Union Lazaros S. LAZAAROUTA Cyprus Member of the EU DoLO
Our management 28 Strategy The next three years will be a crucial period for the European Union in which essential decisions must be taken.
We are aware that EU citizens need access to clear and reliable information to enable the EU to successfully address the challenges facing them.
Citizens must be able to see that the EU is acting with integrity, upholding the rule of law, carefully using taxpayers' money, pursuing clear objectives and achieving the results it has promised.
We can contribute to this as an external auditor of the EU.
Our strategy for 2018-2020: strengthening confidence through external financial control In July 2017, we published our strategy for the period 2018-2020, in which we set four strategic objectives: • communicating clear statements to our audience; • focusing more on the performance aspects of EU action; • improving the added value of the Statement of Assurance; • aligning our overall organisation with our products.
Ultimately, the EU is not about figures, but about people Through external financial control, the Court can show what works and what does not work in the EU's expenditure and activities, it can help EU citizens to answer the question of whether the EU institutions provide them with results, and thus help to strengthen confidence in the EU.
In this sense, the Court's audits must also address the concerns of European citizens, its most important addressees at last.
The 2018-2020 strategy identifies five priority areas for the Court's work in the coming years.
Sustainable management of natural resources and combating climate change Investments for cohesion, growth and integration Challenges related to migration, security and global sustainable development A functioning internal market and a stable monetary union Financing and management of the Union while respecting accountability and economic efficiency
Our management 29 In the course of developing our strategy, we put strong emphasis on internal and external consultation.
We discussed the strategy with our staff and addressed members of the European Parliament, representatives of EU Member States, the European Commission, other supreme audit authorities and non-institutional stakeholders such as scientists, think tanks, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and private sector auditors.
The Court's strategy for 2018-2020 is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Work planning In January 2017, we decided to launch new work plan procedures, which we first applied to our annual work programme for 2018, which was published last October.
The main changes in our work planning: • drawing up a list of audit tasks for the whole Court; • centralised procedure for selecting audit ideas, possible audit tasks and final audit proposals; • more flexible allocation of resources to and distribution of resources between the individual audit chambers, taking into account the workload; • extending the product range to include audit tasks that result from analysis-based publications; • defining high priority audit tasks for which shorter deadlines apply.
We also agreed with the Conference of the Committee Chairs of the European Parliament a procedure in which all permanent committees of Parliament can propose potential audit topics to the Court.
The Court's 2018 work programme is available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Performance Measurement In the period 2013-2017, we used seven key performance indicators (KPI) to inform management of the progress made in achieving our goals, support the decision-making process and provide our addressees with information on our performance.
The indicators were used to measure core parameters regarding the quality and impact of our work, taking into account the position of key stakeholders and the efficiency and effectiveness of our resource use.
A revised set of performance indicators, valid for the period 2018-2020, will be introduced in 2018.
Quality and impact of our work We evaluated the quality and impact of our reports on the basis of assessments by the addressees and expert reviews. Another evaluation criterion was the follow-up to our recommendations for improving EU financial management.
Our management 30 Assessment by the addressees We asked our main institutional addressees and peers – the Committee on Budgetary Control and the European Parliament's Committee on Budgets, the Council's Committee on Budgets, the main audited bodies at the Commission and the European Agencies, and the Presidents of the EU-ORCB – to evaluate our reports.
Similar to previous years, the vast majority of respondents assessed the relevance and impact of our reports in 2017 with "high or "very high".
Expert reviews Every year, independent external experts review the content and presentation of a sample of our reports to assess their quality.
In 2017, the auditors assessed six special reports* and the annual reports for the financial year 2016.
They assessed the quality of various aspects of the reports on a four-stage scale from "significantly impaired" (1) to "highly valuable" (4).
The results have changed only slightly in recent years, with the quality of our reports being "satisfactory". * In 2017, the reviewers assessed our special reports No. 3/2017, No. 4/2017, No. 5/2017, No. 10/2017, No. 14/2017 and No. 17/2017.
Assessment by addressees Assessment of relevance of reports Probable impact of reports 2 100 % very low 16 61 21 21 37 37 5 0 % 20 % very high 40 % 60 % 80 % high medium low Expert reviews of Court reports 2017 2016 2015 2014 3.3 3.2 3.3 3.1 Quality assessment 01234
Our management 31 Follow-up of recommendations During the year, we systematically reviewed the extent to which our recommendations had been implemented by the audited bodies.
By the end of 2017, this was the case with 92% of the recommendations we made in 2014.
100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the year of the tax 92 % 80% 59% 53% 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Court in the media 31% 4% 65% The Court Annual Reports Special Reports in the general media presence In addition, we follow the media reports on our work and our institution.
In 2017, 65% of the references in the online media that related to our work and our institution were to special reports.
Overall, the number of media reports on our special reports increased by 11% compared to 2016.
The Court's reports, which received the largest media response in 2017, were the special reports on the Greek financial crisis, registration centres for migrants (hotspots), fisheries control, greening and the Natura 2000 network.
Our management 32 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 Special Reports of the Court – average number of online articles per special report 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 The increase in media reports on our special reports in 2017 is in line with a trend that has been observed for several years.
While less than 1,500 online articles were published in 2013, this number has risen to almost 7,000 in 2017, with the average number of articles written per special report rising from an average of less than 30 in 2013 to almost 130 in 2017.
The largest media response was our special report on the Greek financial crisis, which covers over 2,000 online articles and contributions on social media resources.As part of our performance measurement, we also assess our resource use, in particular our ability to carry out audits promptly, implement our work programme and ensure the expertise of our employees.
Examination period In 2017, an average of 14.6 months passed from the start of an examination task to the adoption of a special report.
This is the shortest processing time since the beginning of the period 2013-2017.
For the production of eight reports (29%) published during the year, we needed less than 13 months.
The average time to publish the reports was 16 months, about two months less than in 2016.
This positive trend suggests that the measures will bear fruit in achieving the 13-month objective set out in the Financial Regulation.
18 17 16 15 14 13 12 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Duration from the start of the examination task until the adoption of the report
Our Management 33 Publication of Reports In 2017, 65% of our special reports were published in accordance with the original plan.
The remaining reports have been postponed and will be published in 2018.
In addition, our annual reports and all special annual reports have been published as planned.
Professional Training In accordance with the recommendations published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we strive to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training per year.
In 2017, we were once again above this target with 6.7 training days per examiner.
If the language courses required for the efficient work of our auditors in all EU Member States are also taken into account, an auditor accounted for an average of 8.3 training days in 2017.
For the other employees, we have set ourselves the goal of providing on average 16 hours (two days) of professional training (without language courses).
In 2017, this target was met with an average of 2.3 training days.
Average training days per examiner per year 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Objective ≥ 5 days 6.2 7.0 6.7 2015 2016 2017 days
Our staff 34 Personnel allocation In 2017, we completed the 5 % reduction in staff, which is planned for a period of five years (2013-2017), as set out in the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management of December 2013.
At the end of 2017, 853 temporary officials and staff worked at the Court. 548 of them worked in the Chambers of Examination, including 118 employees in the Cabinets of Members.
Recruitment The staff of the Court have a broad academic and professional background.
With our recruitment policy, we follow the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and promote equal opportunities at all levels.
Staff include both officials and temporary staff.
General selection procedures are usually organised by the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
In 2017, the Court hired 72 staff: 29 officials, 13 temporary staff, 24 contract staff (of whom seven left the Court by the end of the year) and six seconded national experts.
We also provided 71 university graduates with internships for periods of three to five months.
Staff allocation by the Court 137 138 123 124 49 43 Examination services 2017 Translation Administration President's services Total: 853 553 548
Our employees 35 Age profile The age profile of the active staff on 31 December 2017 shows that almost half of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
31 of the 68 directors and executive managers of the Court (46%) are 55 years old or older.
As a result, in the next five to ten years, when these employees retire, they will be re-established in senior management positions.
Balance between men and women The Court pursues a policy of equal opportunities, which covers all stages of the career of its employees.
Overall, we have achieved a balanced proportion of men and women among our employees; 43% of our auditors and boards are women.
In recent years, we have managed to increase the proportion of women in management positions in our examination chambers from 7% in 2015 to almost 20% in 2017.
We continue to work to achieve a balance between men and women at all levels of management.
Our policy of equal opportunities for the period 2018-2020 also concerns issues related to age and disability.
More detailed information on the nationality and gender of managers is given in the table below.
Age profile 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0 % 0.3 % 2.3% 4.8% 0.4 % 5 % 7.6 % 17.0% 10 % 15 % 25 % 17.1% 10.8 % 21.0% 18.7% Relationship between men and women at the level of responsibility 34% 66% Assistants and secretaries Auditors and boards of directors Management 57% 43% 63% 37% 0 % 20 % 40 % 60 % 80 % 100 %
In 2017, we further expanded our training offering, including an increase in the number of courses in the areas of e-learning and integrated learning (blended learning).
We continued our successful series of presentations, which were held by internal or external experts on developments in the field of audit and other topics relating to the work of our auditors.
We also organised several training sessions and events where experts from other Supreme Audit Institutions presented knowledge and best practices on accounting audits and audits.
A good example of this is the annual "Training Day", which we organised in November 2017 in cooperation with the University of Luxembourg and which involved over 300 employees.
We work closely with the European Commission, the European Institute for Public Administration (EIPA) and the European Administrative Academy (EUSA) to provide our staff with a wide range of training courses, including exam courses and courses on personal skills development as well as work-related language courses.
In addition, we helped our employees to acquire or maintain professional qualifications and qualifications in the areas relevant to the role and work of the Court.
In particular, we continued our cooperation with the University of Lorraine (Nancy, France), which offers the postgraduate course "Audit of public organisations and policies" and the Master's programme "Management of public organisations".
We also signed a cooperation agreement with the European University Institute (EHI) in Florence (Italy).
In 2017, we established a partnership with the University of Pisa (Italy) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accoun-tants (ACCA) to organise a summer course in the field of public financial control and accountability.
Last year, we awarded the best submitted contribution with the award 2016 by the Court for scientific work in the field of public sector audit.
37 We continued our "Performance Recognition Awards" program, which allows non-managerial staff to participate in specific external training.
Translation The Directorate for Translations, Language Services and Publication of the Court translated and revised over 211 000 pages.
We continued our efforts to streamline translation and reduce the costs involved.
For example, all our translation teams are now using a collaborative working platform to increase efficiency.
We are striving to involve our translators increasingly in our core activities and to create further synergies with our auditors.
In particular, in 2017 the translators increasingly supported the auditors in the linguistic preparation of the special reports and the annual report.
They also provided our examiners with linguistic support during 38 test visits.
Information technology Our IT-based management is making a decisive contribution to our audit processes by optimizing the flow of information using modern and secure technologies.
We made further progress in document management and were able to digitise the processes in the area of production, acceptance and publication.
We introduced a simplified tool to facilitate remote access via mobile devices.
We also performed a system upgrade (installation of Windows 10 and SharePoint 2013).
To make even better use of interinstitutional synergies, we introduced new systems for managing audit, mission and training, which are currently being used by other EU institutions.
Support for audit activities 38 buildings The Court currently owns three buildings ("K1", "K2" and "K3") and provides office space for its data recovery centre in Luxembourg.
K1 The K1 building, which was opened in 1988, has offices for up to 310 employees and meeting rooms.
The basements have parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, the library and the main archive, while the entire top floor is used for technical installations.
The K1 building was modernised in 2008 to bring it into line with national health, safety and environmental requirements.
As far as possible, the technology in the K1 building was adapted to achieve compatibility with the buildings K2 and K3.
The three buildings thus form a single integrated technical unit.
K2 The K2 building was opened in 2003.
The basements have parking, technical facilities, storage rooms and the fitness centre.
The entire top floor is used for technical installations.
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees, and there are meeting rooms, a conference room with interpreting booths, video conference rooms, a cafeteria and a basic kitchen area.
The Court commissioned a study to assess the feasibility of setting up activity-related work areas and the modernisation of the K2 technical facilities.
The study shows that the design of the work areas could be improved and some technical facilities need to be modernised.
A detailed study of this project will be carried out in 2018 and work is expected to begin in 2019.
As approved by the Council and the European Parliament in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining funds of the K3 construction project, which was completed a few years ago, to finance this modernisation.
Safety Control Centre 2018 27 m2 2 K1 1988 26 550 m2 310 K3 K2 2003 21 500 m2 241 Year of construction Total gross area (m2) Jobs 2012 34 500 m2 503
Support for audit activities 39 K3 The K3 building was opened in 2012.
The basements are equipped with parking, technical equipment, storage rooms, unloading areas, waste storage facilities, printing works, kitchens and archives.
The ground floor consists of the canteen, a cafeteria and training rooms.
In addition, there are offices for 503 employees, meeting rooms and an IT room in this building.
On the sixth floor there are reception rooms, a kitchen and technical facilities.
Based on the world's leading method for assessing and certifying the sustainability of buildings (BREAM), the K3 building was rated "very good".
Project for Safety at Work In 2017, the project aimed at strengthening the safety of the farm and its employees was continued as planned.
The new security control centre, the external accreditation centre and access control centre for employees and visitors will be put into operation in 2018.
Environmental management As an institution of the European Union, we consider it our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all activities and we strive to reduce the environmental impact of the Court continuously.
In 2017, we received the Eco Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS).
We now successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015.
Our goal is to systematically reduce our CO2 emissions.
In 2017, we analyzed – for the third year in a row – the greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities (i.e. our carbon footprint).
The results of this study are available on our website (eca.europa.eu).
Accountability of the 40 Court Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union, with its budget falling within the area of administrative expenditure.
In 2017, the Court's budget amounted to around 141 million euros.
This represents less than 0.1% of total EU expenditure and around 1.5% of total EU administrative expenditure.
The share of the 2017 budget appropriations used was 98%.
Implementation of the 2017 budget Final appropriations Commitments Use of appropriations in % Payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 – Members of the institution 11 200 10 672 95 % 10 598 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 102 470 101 088 99 % 101 010 14 – Other staff and external services 5 716 5 464 96 % 5 333 162 – Missions 3 450 3 035 88 % 2 575 161 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure on members and staff of the institution 2775 2 530 91 % 1901 Subtotal Title 1 125611 122 789 98 % 121 417 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 20 – Buildings 3 546 3 541 99% 1 669 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 8 148 8 148 100 % 4 563 212 + 214 + 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 999 942 94% 736 23 – Running operational expenditure 434 293 68% 221 25 – Meetings and conferences 143 664 91%
Court's accountability 41 Budget 2018 The 2018 budget has increased by 3.4% compared to 2017.
Budget 2018 10 – Members of the institution 12 – Officials and temporary staff 14 – Other staff and external services 162 – Missions 20 – Building 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 212 + 214 + 216 – Mobile and ancillary costs 23 – Current operating expenses 25 – Meetings and conferences 27 – Information and publications 12 515 11300 106 600 103 632 5 745 5 101 3 450 3 450 2 930 3 216 7 492 7 408 1 157 925 555 438 706 676 1876 2306 BUDGET 2018 2017 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 161 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 2 990 2788 Subtotal Title 1 131300 126 271 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure Subtotal Title 2 14 716 14969 Total 146016 141240
Court's accountability 42 Risk management During the year, we reviewed the risk assessments prepared for each Directorate, as required by the Financial Regulation.
The results of these checks shall be included in the annual statement by the authorising officer by delegation in the Annual Activity Report and shall be used for the risk assessments carried out the following year.
As far as necessary, we have prepared action plans for ex ante and ex post controls.
In September 2017, after carrying out these inspections, we strengthened internal controls and financial procedures related to travel expenses and the management of service vehicles.
Internal and external audit Internal audit The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk management issues.
It shall deliver opinions on the quality of the administrative and internal control systems and report to a Committee on Internal Audit, composed of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee shall monitor regularly progress on the various tasks defined in the annual work programme of the Internal Audit Service and ensure the independence of the Office.
In 2017, the department examined the implementation of the Court's 2013-2017 strategy, the operational structure of the President's Services Directorate, and the management of our software licenses and products.
It also examined the implementation of the Court's risk management policy and monitored the implementation of its recommendations to ensure that the action plans take shape.
The Internal Auditor considers that in 2017, the existing governance, risk management and internal control procedures as a whole provide sufficient assurance that the Court's objectives will be achieved.
We report annually to Parliament and the Council on the results of internal audit work.
External audit Our annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same transparency and accountability principles to itself as to the bodies it examines.
The auditor's report – PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à r.l. – on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2016 was published on 31 October 2017.
Discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2017, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2015.
This means that our financial statements for 2015 have been finally approved.
As in every year, we have carefully analysed the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility, taken appropriate measures and reported to the European Parliament on our follow-up.
Court's annual accounts 43 Audit opinions of the independent auditor – Financial year 2016 Court's annual accounts: "According to our assessment, the annual accounts give an actual picture of the European Court of Auditors' assets and financial position as at 31 December 2016 and its earnings, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ending that reference date in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the Union's general budget and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2012, p.
1), hereinafter referred to as the "Budget", and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules for applying the Financial Regulation.
Declaration by the Plenipotentiary 44 Authorising Officer I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate and confirms with sufficient certainty that the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes provided and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, that the control procedures established are proportionate to the necessary guarantees of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and to the appropriate handling of fraud or suspected fraud, costs and benefits of the controls.
This security is based on the assessment of the undersigned and on the information available to him, such as the reports and statements of the authorising officers by subdelegation, the internal auditor's reports and the independent auditor's audit reports on previous financial years.
Done at Luxembourg, 8 March 2018 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General
The new action plan for the period 2014-2020: The Commission's negotiations on the partnership agreements and programmes of the Cohesion Policy 2014-2020: a more focused focus of expenditure on the priorities of Europe 2020, but increasingly complex measures for measurement • Special Report No 3/2017: Special Report No 2/2017: The Commission's negotiations on the partnership agreements and programmes of the Cohesion Policy 2014-2020: The new action plan for the EYD is to be implemented in the context of the new action plan for the EYD.
Publications subject to payment: • via EU Bookshop (http://bookshop.europa.eu). © European Union, 2018 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
DE 2018 Activity Report
EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi 1615 Luxembourg LUXEMBOURG Tel. +352 4398-1 Contact form: eca.europa.eu/en/Pages/ContactForm.aspx Website: eca.europa.eu Twitter: @EUAuditors 02 A great deal of additional information on the European Union is available on the Internet.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2019 Print ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-1854-2 HTML ISBN 978-92-847-1818-4 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/092674 doi:10.2865/049466 doi:10.2865/607255 QJ-AA-19-001-EN-C QJ-AA-19-001-EN-N QJ-AA-19-001-EN-Q
1 The College of Members of the European Court of Auditors on 1 May 2018
Content President's Preface 5 2018 at a glance 6 Our Activities 7 Strategy 7 Focus – communication activity around our products 8 Exams 10 Work planning 12 On-site audits 13 Publications 17 Key events 37 Relations with institutional addressees 41 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKB) 44 Our Management 46 The College of Court Members 46 Audit chambers and committees 49 Performance measurement 50 Our staff 58 Personnel allocation 58 Recruitment 58 Age profile 59 Balance between men and women 60 2
Support for audit activities 62 Professional training 62 Translation 63 Information, working environment and innovation 64 Building 65 Strengthening of Court's security 67 Environmental management 67 Court's accountability 68 Financial information 68 Internal and external audit 70 Statement by authorising officer by delegation 73 Annex – Publications in 2018: Special reports, annual reports, opinions and analytical products 74 3
European Court of Auditors 4 About the Court The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the external auditor of the European Union.
It was established in 1977 and is one of the seven institutions of the EU.
The Court is based in Luxembourg and employs around 900 staff from all EU nationalities, composed of auditors and staff in horizontal services and administration.
The College of the Court shall each have one member from each EU Member State.
The Court's tasks The Court checks whether the EU ensures proper accounting, applies its financial rules correctly and whether its policies and programmes achieve the objectives pursued and give the best possible use to the funds.
Through its audit work, the Court contributes to improving the financial management of the EU and to promoting accountability and transparency.
The Court makes its observations and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council of the EU, national governments and parliaments and the general public.
Foreword of the President 5 Dear reader, dear reader!
We are now increasingly focusing on assessing the performance of EU measures, conveying our statements to the Court's addressees in a clear form and increasing the value of our work for our stakeholders.
In this activity report, we provide an overview of our work in 2018, in which we published the highest number of special reports, analyses and opinions so far.
You will also find information about our employees, our management and our finances.
Our reports offer an impartial assessment of the Union's policies and programmes and the quality of EU financial management within and outside the European Union.
We are looking at whether EU expenditure is in line with the rules and whether Union policies and programmes ensure optimal use of funds.
We will be pleased to work with the newly elected European Parliament and the new European Commission to further improve EU financial management and ensure that the EU achieves results.
In this report, our determination to continue to adapt the Court's organisation to "equip us for the future" and to continue to shape developments in the field of public sector audit.
2018 at a glance 44 record number of publications presented to EU legislators 43 European Parliament 44 Council Global Audit Leadership Forum attended around 45 international activities 834 staff from all Member States 50 : 50 EXISTING HISTORY OF MEN AND WHITE BEDIESTETER Annual Report on the EU budget: Unlimited audit opinion on EU accounting for opinions: 10, mainly on the MFF for 2021-2027 Impact of our work: Limited audit opinion on payments 6 on publications: 35 special reports 9 analytical publications record number Most of our recommendations implemented High media coverage: +17 000 online articles 4 new members of the Court 5 members' mandate extensions Addressees consider our work useful and effective contributions to the social media 11 million times indicated
Our activities Strategy 2018 is the first year of our current strategy, which covers the period up to 2020 inclusive.
Our strategic objectives for this three-year period are: o to improve the added value of the Statement of Assurance with a view to current EU financial management, o to increase the focus on the performance aspects of EU measures, o to provide clear statements for our audience.
In addition, we have agreed to align our overall organisation even better with our products.
In order to implement our strategy, we have agreed an action plan for these objectives, in order to continue to be among the leaders in developments in the field of public sector audit.
All these measures were in progress at the end of 2018.
At the same time, we have already commissioned an independent peer review process to implement our strategy. The expert review is scheduled to be completed at the end of 2019 – further information in the Court's accountability chapter.
Progress towards achieving our strategic objectives 7
The focus – the communication activity around our products Communicating clear statements for our audience Communication is crucial if we are to achieve our strategic goal of communicating clear statements for our audience. This consists of the political bodies responsible for the control and management of the policies and programmes of the Union of the EU and the Member States, the other Supreme Audit Institutions, companies and industry organisations, scientists and not least the general public – our main stakeholder.
In 2018, we experienced the media's interest in our work.
Above all, our special reports met with great interest in the media and were also discussed more and more in national and EU-oriented media channels – further information on this in the chapter on media presence.
In 2018, we published 12 audit previews (previously referred to as "background papers") which are intended to serve as a source of information for all those interested in certain policy areas or programmes for which audits are under way.
The information presented in the report is based on the preparatory work before the start of an ongoing examination task.
Audit previews have contributed to the stable and balanced output of Court publications throughout the year: 2018 was the first year in which there was not a single month without the publication of the ECA.
We will continue to publish this type of communication products in 2019. 8
Journal While our findings and recommendations for improving EU financial management are set out in our audit reports, the Court Journal focuses on our working methods and our staff who produce reports on various areas.
Now each issue is dedicated to a different overarching theme.
In 2018, the Court's journal has targeted a range of topics such as EU leadership assistance, the financing and audit of Parliament and the EU's financial and economic governance, as well as our special reports, our work programme, our international cooperation and our forward-looking measures with the aim of "equiping the Court for the future".
An insight into our facility 9 Downloads 2018 2017 9 314 16 357
Audits More focused on performance We carry out various types of audits in the different areas of the EU budget: o Economic audits – Consider the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes.The focus of these audits on optimal use of funds is on specific management or budget issues.
When selecting and designing these audit tasks, the Court shall consider the risks to the economy or compliance, the level of the revenue or expenditure concerned, as well as the political and public interest; o Audits of the accounts and compliance audits – This shall consider the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying financial operations, in particular in the context of the Statement of Assurance, and whether the systems in specific budgetary areas are in line with the rules.
Our random sampling procedure ensures the same probability of testing for each euro spent.
Our audits focus on issues that reflect EU-relevant issues such as the sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, challenges associated with migration and global development, the internal market and banking union, and ensuring the accountability and economic efficiency of the European Union.
On the basis of the evidence gathered during our audit work, our reports draw clear conclusions on the extent to which the EU's policy objectives have been achieved, as well as on the state of the Union's budgetary and financial management.
Our audits are in line with internationally recognised auditing principles for the public sector.
The examination work is divided into the following phases: 10
PLANTING Identify the usefulness and feasibility of a proposed audit.
ON-site audit work Multidisciplinary teams shall gather on-site audit evidence in the Commission's central services and in Member States and recipient countries.
SUMMARY 03 04 05 06 11 01 02 Clear, structured presentation of the main findings and conclusions.
CLARification Confirmation of facts and findings by the body under examination.
Acceptance of the report by the Chamber of Examination or the whole College of Court.
PUBLICATION Publication of the special report in 23 official languages together with the reply of the body examined.
Work planning Audit priorities are based on the main EU concerns Our work programme is adopted annually by the Court members.
In January 2018, President Lehne presented the 2018 work programme to the Conference of the European Parliament's Committee Chairs and asked all Parliament's committees to propose potential audit topics for the 2019 work programme in the context of the annual stakeholder consultations.
12 In October 2018, we published the first work programme prepared in accordance with the new strategy. In this 2019 work programme, we presented our audit priorities and the 36 reports and analysis-based products that are scheduled to be published this year.
These tasks covered, at least in part, 29 of the 69 proposals submitted by Parliament (42%) (2017: 32%).
Our audits will continue to focus on key issues such as the sustainable use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, migration, security and global development, the internal market and the accountability and economic viability of the EU, to determine whether the EU has achieved what it has promised.
On-site examinations 3 761 days of examination work – inside and outside the EU The majority of our examination work takes place in the premises of the Court in Luxembourg.
At the same time, our auditors also carry out numerous audit visits to the European Commission – the most important body audited by the Court – including the other EU institutions, agencies and bodies, EU delegations, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, and international organisations to which EU funds are allocated.
We also carry out on-site audits of beneficiaries of EU funds within and outside the European Union.
These audits will enable us to understand the audit path and obtain direct audit evidence from the bodies involved in the management of Union policies and programmes and the collection or payment of EU funds, as well as from the beneficiaries concerned. 13
The frequency and intensity of our audit work in the individual Member States and recipient countries depend on the type of audit we carry out.
In 2018, our auditors spent 3 761 days (2017: 3 670 days) with on-site inspections in Member States and outside the EU.
Within the EU, our on-site audits are often carried out in conjunction with the Supreme Audit Authorities of the Member States visited.
In addition, our auditors spent 2,723 days (2017: 2,300 days) with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, with decentralised agencies and bodies throughout the EU, with international organisations such as the United Nations or the OECD, as well as with audit firms.
To obtain and validate audit evidence, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies, such as the secure exchange of data and documents. 14
The 2018 test visits within and outside the EU are carried out on 15 days 15 Italy Germany Poland France Spain Greece Portugal Netherlands Sweden Romania Czech Republic Bulgaria Slovenia United Kingdom Lithuania Finland Denmark Estonia Austria Hungary Cyprus 40 Belgium 38 Ireland 37 Slovakia 34 Latvia 22 Croatia 12 Malta 10 Luxembourg 3 Saint Lucia 1 Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 1 Albania 3 Dominica 3 Switzerland 6 Canada 10 Norway 11 Algeria 14 Botswana 18 Laos 19 Tunisia 19 Kenya 20 Ethiopia 21 Lebanon 21 Niger 21 Sierra Leone 23 Guinea 25 Ukraine 25 Djibouti 26 Japan 26 United States 26 Isr ael 27 Mozambique 28 Barbados 30 Haiti 33 Turkey 33 231 185 176 147 136 122 101 94 85 83 70 65 64 56 51 355 347 335 292 Third countries (489 test days) 6 480 test days EU institutions and international organisations (2 723 test days) of which: Brussels and Luxembourg (1 637 test days) EU Member States (3 272 test days) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 Note: Differences in the overall training are due to rounding.
Combating fraud at the expense of the EU budget Nine cases of suspected fraud In combating fraud at the expense of the EU budget, we are working closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
OLAF will then continue to investigate these cases, which will decide on possible investigations and, if necessary, cooperate with the authorities of the Member States.
Although our tests are not specifically designed to detect fraud, we occasionally encounter cases where we suspect irregularities or fraudulent activities.
In 2018, we forwarded nine such cases (2017: 13 cases) in which there was a suspicion of fraud to OLAF.
Additional information on the nature of suspected fraud and the resulting recovery, as recommended by OLAF, is available in our annual reports on the EU general budget. 16
Publications New record: highest number of publications in 2018 Our audit reports, analyses and opinions form an important link in the EU's accountability chain.
They help the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union to monitor and verify whether the EU achieves its policy objectives and to hold the bodies responsible for the EU's financial management accountable, in particular in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
This is primarily the European Commission, but also the other EU institutions and bodies.
National, regional and local authorities in the Member States also play an important role in areas of shared management, where the bulk of EU budget is spent, including agricultural and cohesion measures.
Number of special reports and analysis-based publications (2015-2018) 17 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 22 38 30 44 Year Number of publications
On our publications: Special and Annual Reports o Special Reports, which set out the results of selected audits on specific policy or expenditure areas or on budgetary or management issues; o Annual Reports, which essentially cover the results of audits of the accounts and compliance audits on the European Union budget and on the European Development Funds, but also aspects of budgetary management and performance aspects; o Special annual reports on EU agencies, decentralised bodies and joint undertakings published separately.
Opinions and analysis-based publications o Opinions on new or amended acts with significant implications for financial management, which are mandatory either under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) or are drawn up at the request of another body or at the Court's own initiative; o thematic papers are descriptive and analytical documents on policies or management, which focus on specific topics; o landscape analyses are similar to thematic papers, but they focus on complex, broad policy areas or management issues, often from a cross-cutting perspective; o rapid case reviews, which compile facts related to very clearly defined specific issues or problems; if necessary, they include an evaluation that allows a better understanding of these facts.
Finally, we present background information on future or ongoing audit tasks in the form of audit previews – further information in the chapter on communication activity around our products.
All the Court's publications are available on our website (eca.europa.eu) and are listed at the end of this report. 18
19 6ANNUAL REPORTS Annual reports: • EU budget • European Development Fund • 41 EU agencies and bodies • 8 Joint research undertakings • European schools • Contingent liabilities of the SRB, the Commission and the Council 2018 Publications of the ECHR Topic papers: NEW • Future of finance Audit reports 35 SPECIAL REPORTS Full list on page 21 Opinions: • EU financing and the rule of law • European Monetary Fund • European Development Fund • Protection of EU whistleblowers • Future of the CAP • Simplification of research programmes • Integration of migrants • Simplification of cohesion policy • New Multiannual Financial Framework Landscape analyses • Application of Union law • Mobility and transport Rapid analysis • VAT refund in the area of cohesion • Animal welfare • Food safety • Wind energy and photovoltaics • Eco-produced food Supervision in the EU insurance sector • Facilitability for refugees in Turkey • Transboundary health care • Consultation of the public • Desertification • Electronic trade • Aid fund for the most disadvantaged • Competition rules • Reform of own resources • Reform of the Cohesion Fund • 12Asias Common Agricultural Policy • New intervention programme • OLAF and pre-accession instrument
Special Reports We assess the performance of EU action in our Special Reports In line with our 2018-2020 strategy, we are increasingly focusing on assessing the performance of EU action to ensure that the resources of EU citizens are used optimally.
In 2018, we published 35 special reports (2017: 28 special reports) on the various areas of EU expenditure, addressing the challenges facing the EU, such as air pollution, the high-speed rail network, the Refugee Facility in Turkey, banking supervision and the financing of non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
In these special reports, we will examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved in an effective and economic way, and whether EU funds have created added value – i.e. whether they have achieved more than can be achieved by action alone at national level.
We also make recommendations on financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste or achieving the policy objectives more cost-effectively.
At this point, we will examine two of our 2018 special reports: a special report on high-speed rail transport in the EU and one on the Facility for Refugees in Turkey.
In accordance with the EU Financial Regulation, we strive to produce our special reports within 13 months. 20
• Competitiveness for Growth and Employment • Broadband development • Exploitation of Cohesion Expenditure • High-speed rail transport • Project performance • Erasmus+ programme • Simplification within Horizon 2020 • Driving and Passenger Rights Special Reports of the Court in 2018 NATURAL RESOURCES Special Reports: • Renewable Energy • Basic Payment Scheme • Simplified Financing Options • Air Quality • CO2 capture and storage • Flood prevention • Animal welfare • Desertification EUROPE IN THE WORLD Special Reports: • EU assistance to Myanmar/Burma • Pre-accession assistance to Turkey • EU assistance to the Sahel • African Peace and Security Architecture • Facility for Refugees in Turkey • Trust Fund for Africa Special Reports: • Better Regulation • IT Systems for Customs Assistance • EU Aid to the Sahel • EU Aid to the African Peace and Security Area • EU Aid to the Republic of Turkey • EU Aid for the prevention of the situation • EU Aid for the prevention of the situation of refugees • EU Aid for the prevention of the situation • EU Aid for the prevention of the situation • EU Aid for the prevention of the situation • EU Aid for the situation in the region • EU Aid for the situation in the region • EU Aid for the region • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey • Aid for the Republic of Turkey
Special report in focus European high-speed rail network: not a reality, but an ineffective patchwork High-speed rail transport has many advantages for passengers.
It is a convenient, safe, flexible and environmentally sustainable mode of transport.
Improved links between regions in the EU will also make them more competitive and contribute to European integration by bringing people closer to each other.
In this way we analyzed the various connections, travel times and prices for business and private travellers.
We also examined whether co-financed investments in high-speed rail lines were cost-effective and effective, well thought out and planned.
The Court concluded that the European high-speed rail network was merely an inefficient patchwork of lines from each Member State, which were not sufficiently interconnected.
There is no realistic long-term plan for connecting the various parts of the existing EU network; high-speed lines crossing national borders are not among the priorities of each Member State and the European Commission does not have the powers to force Member States to do so.
In such circumstances, EU co-financing for high-speed rail transport will achieve a low added value.
However, there is also a good news: the number of passengers using high-speed rail in Europe is growing steadily. Thus, the number of passengers travelling from around 15 billion passenger kilometres in 1990 to over 124 billion in 2016.
Both institutions welcomed the report and agreed with our conclusions.
We also presented it to numerous national authorities and SAIs as well as researchers, industry stakeholders and the media.
Throughout the EU, the media, in particular EU-oriented media and financial media, have been involved in this report, especially in Spain and Germany.
DE – Time: Rail lines: fast train routes in the EU too expensive and too slow IT – La Repubblica: Alta velocità nell'Ue, la Corte dei Conti europea boccia la rete UK – Financial Times: Bloc criticaled over high-speed rail strategy ES – El cinco días: Los auditores de la UE criticalan la incoherencia de los trazados del AVE
Special report in focus The Facility for Refugees in Turkey: Support is helpful, but optimal use of funds can only be achieved with improvements Turkey has received as many refugees as no other country in the world, with almost 4 million people.
Some 3.5 million of these refugees are Syrians, most of whom live outside refugee camps.
Support under the Facility for Refugees in Turkey, which has been endowed with a total of EUR 6 billion by the EU and its Member States, will cover humanitarian and non-Humanitarian activities for refugees and host communities.
As part of the political agreement, Turkey was required to end irregular migration from Turkey to the EU.
The humanitarian projects have met the basic needs of refugees, but in some cases the expected optimal use of funds or the objective of the Facility, an effective coordination of this support, has not been achieved.
The humanitarian projects examined have provided helpful support to refugees.
For example, the Social Security Network for Emergency Situations helped 1.3 million refugees through cash aid.
However, half of the projects have not yet achieved the expected impact – a lasting positive impact that can be sustained without further financial support – and nine out of ten projects had to be extended.
The timely implementation of projects managed by NGOs was mainly hampered by the difficult working environment.
This was due to the refusal by the Turkish authorities to provide access to the data of the eligible beneficiaries of the two cash support projects in our sample, totalling EUR 1.1 billion.
We presented our report at a joint meeting in which the Committee on Development, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Budgetary Control of the European Parliament took part, and subsequently the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
It was also presented to the Enlargement and Accession Countries Group of the Council of the EU and the press.
This report has attracted a lot of media interest, especially in Germany, but also in Denmark, Austria, the Benelux and Mediterranean countries, and in EU-oriented media.
25 DE – Der Spiegel: Court of Auditors criticises shortcomings in EU refugee assistance FR – EurActiv: La Cour des comptes plutôt satisfaite de l-aide aux réfugiés en Turquie ES – Euronews: Turquía debe rendir cuentas por la gestión de los refugiados UK – EU Observer: EU unable to fully trace €1 bn spend on refugees in Turkey
Annual reports Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2017 Annual accounts, full audit opinion on revenue, limited audit opinion on expenditure Every year, we review the revenue and expenditure of the EU budget and examine whether the annual accounts are reliable and that the revenue and expenditure operations are in line with the financial rules at EU and Member State level.
In addition, we assess all key areas of the EU budget specifically – on the basis of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) headings for the period 2014-2020 – and provide information on budgetary and financial management and performance-related information.
Furthermore, we analyse why errors have occurred, make recommendations on possible improvements and examine whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been put into practice.
In our latest annual report on the EU budget for 2017, our auditors examined a sample of around 700 payments worth a total of 100 billion euros to beneficiaries in the various areas of expenditure in the EU budget.
This means that we analysed some 700 different cases where EU funds were used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries.
26 Key data EU expenditure 2017 137.4 billion Euro Audited amount 100.2 billion Euro (703 payment transactions) Accounting According to actual circumstances – reliability confirms revenue Legally and properly – full audit opinion Expenditure Except for reimbursements lawfully and properly – limited (and no failed) audit opinion
Downward trend in estimated error rates continues This extensive work forms the basis for our Statement of Assurance, which we must submit to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with our mandate set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.
The Court gave an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the revenue of the EU, as in previous years.
In addition, we were able to present a limited (and not failed) assessment of EU expenditure for the second year in a row.
A significant part of the expenditure audited in 2017 did not have a significant error rate.
In addition, the estimated error rate for 2017 payments was 2.4%, after remaining at 3.1% in 2016 and 3.8% in 2015.
Parliament's discharge procedure is launched The publication of our annual report is at the beginning of the discharge procedure carried out by the European Parliament, in which the EU legislative and budgetary authority – on the recommendation of the Council – decides whether the Commission and other bodies' management of the EU budget has been satisfactory.
We presented our annual report to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control on 4 October at the same time as it was published and subsequently also to the plenary of the European Parliament and the ECOFIN Council, as well as to the national parliaments and authorities of 14 Member States.
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and Mr Lazarou, Member of the Court, at the presentation of our annual report at the plenary session of the European Parliament in Strasbourg in November 2018 28
For cohesion expenditure, we assessed the 2014-2020 control and reliability framework and the reliability of the information provided by the Commission to demonstrate regularity.
This was a first step towards the potential design of the Statement of Assurance as a test-oriented audit.
With the revised approach and the transition to a test-based audit, we intend to take more account of the different internal control levels at the European Commission and the Member States' authorities responsible for managing EU expenditure.
This will clarify where weaknesses persist both in the European Commission and in the Member States, allowing us to contribute to promoting accountability and further improving EU financial management.
This approach shall only apply where the relevant conditions laid down in international auditing principles are met. 29
Annual report on the European Development Funds Failed audit opinion on payments The European Union provides support for development cooperation with the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the overseas countries and territories under the European Development Funds (EDF).
The EDFs are financed by the Member States of the Union and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank.
Key data on our audit opinions on EDFs are given below.
Special annual reports Agencies and other bodies Unrestricted opinion on all EU agencies except one EU agencies are based all over Europe and employ around 11,000 staff.
The 2017 budget of all agencies, except for the Single Resolution Committee (SRB), amounted to EUR 3.5 billion, representing approximately 2.7% of the EU total budget.
The SRB's 2017 budget, financed by contributions from credit institutions, amounted to 6.6 billion euros.
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) in London, which is moving to Amsterdam New approach: a single report on all 41 EU agencies In 2018, we decided to present the results of our audit of the accounts in EU agencies in a more user-friendly format.
While we continued to provide individual assurances for each agency, we published a single annual report on all agencies, including a summary document entitled "Short Information to Review EU Agencies".
As every year, we have also published our annual reports on the European Schools and the contingent liabilities of the SRB, the Commission and the Council. 31
Seats of agencies in Member States 32 * Following the UK's decision to withdraw from the EU, the Council decided to move the EMA and EBA to Amsterdam and Paris in 2019.
Joint Undertakings Unrestricted review judgement for all European Joint Research Undertakings other than a Joint Undertaking are EU public-private partnerships with industry, research groups and Member States, which play an important role in implementing certain aspects of EU research policy.
The European Commission is the member of the Joint Undertaking and represents the EU.
Private members include various partners from industry and research.
One of the main objectives of the Joint Undertakings is to attract contributions from members of the private industry and the research sector, which is their added value.
33 Main conclusions Overall, our review of the agencies confirmed the positive results from previous years for the year ending 31 December 2017.
We gave full audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts for all agencies; full audit opinions on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts of all agencies; full audit opinions on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the accounts of all agencies, with the exception of a failed audit opinion for the European Asylum Support Office, which identified a number of problems.
Main conclusions o We have drawn up and confirmed the reliability of the accounts of all EU Joint Undertakings for the financial year 2017. o Seven Joint Undertakings have received full audit opinions on their revenue and payment transactions; the Electronic Components and Systems Joint Undertaking for Europe's Leadership has received a limited audit opinion as auditors have identified problems that in some cases have been countered by effective internal control.
Opinions We also contribute to improving the EU's fiscal governance by publishing opinions on Commission proposals for new or amended legislation.
If these are acts with significant financial implications, the Court's opinions are required under EU law.
These are mainly used by the legislative authority – the European Parliament and the Council – in their work.
Opinions may also be launched at the request of other institutions or on the Court's own initiative.
In 2018, we published ten opinions – the highest number so far – on various areas of EU governance.
On the one hand, these mainly concerned the Commission's legislative proposals for the new MFF, such as the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), the effectiveness of the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) and its cooperation with the future European Public Prosecutor's Office (EUStA), and the link between EU funding and respect for the rule of law and the protection of whistleblowers.
Focus – opinion on CAP reform A more environmentally friendly and consistently performance-based CAP, which focuses more on accountability When the European Commission published its legislative proposal for the new CAP after 2020, it stressed that environmental and climate objectives would be given a very high priority.
However, in our opinion on the reform of the CAP, we pointed out that many of the policy options proposed differed only slightly from the current CAP regime.
In particular, most of the budget will continue to be direct payments to farmers based on the number of own or used hectares.
We also noted that this instrument is not the most economical way to support an adequate income and that it does not take into account many environmental concerns.
Moreover, the Commission's assessment of the CAP's contribution to the EU's climate change objectives seemed unrealistic, so the Court recommends more environmentally friendly and consistently performance-based plans for the next CAP, which should also focus more on accountability. 34
In accordance with the procedure we apply in our reports, this opinion was presented to the committees of the European Parliament, in particular the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the Council, the stakeholders in the environmental and agricultural sectors and the press. 35
Analysis-based publications: Landscape analyses, thematic papers and rapid case reviews Analytical overview of publicly available information and the Court's own work Landscape analyses In 2018, we produced two landscape analyses.
In the first, the Court considered the application of Union law in practice and indicated that the Commission's supervisory activities in relation to the application of Union law by Member States should be strengthened.
In the second Landscape analysis, we dealt with mobility and transport and considered it the cornerstone of European integration.
However, we expressed concerns about the investment gap, as the reduction in investment in transport infrastructure slows down the modernisation of the EU transport network.
Topic papers In 2018, we published a total of six thematic papers: five on the Commission's proposals for the future MFF and one on the integration of migrants in the EU.
The Court's comments on the MFF focused in particular on the proposed procedure for setting the EU's expenditure priorities, the flexibility of the EU budget, the performance orientation and simplification of administration, and accountability and audit rules.
We welcomed the Commission's efforts to modernise the EU budget for the post-2020 period, but at the same time identified several potential risks, identified a number of weaknesses and proposed concrete improvements.
We pointed out that effective parliamentary control of sound accountability rules is needed and that the Court should in principle be designated as an external auditor for all bodies created by the EU.
Rapid Case Reviews In the only rapid analysis we presented in 2018 on cohesion, we found that VAT reimbursement is prone to error and does not always represent an optimal use of EU funds.
We felt that the refund of VAT to public authorities should no longer be possible for EU co-financed expenditures after 2020. 36
Conference on financial instruments In January 2018, we held a joint high-level conference on EU financial instruments in Vilnius in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Lithuania.
The event provided a platform for high-level experts from EU institutions and Lithuanian institutions, experts and other public and private stakeholders to share their views and ideas.
Symposium on the Public Financing of Parliaments In March 2018, the Court hosted a two-day international symposium on the public financing of parliaments in Europe, which was used to discuss their autonomy and analyse the budgetary systems of the EU Member States.
Global Audit Leadership Forum In April 2018, we hosted the fifth meeting of the Global Audit Leadership Forum, where the presidents and representatives of around twenty Supreme Audit Institutions from around the world met.
The main topics discussed were the practice and limitations of the economic assessment in the political context as well as the challenges and opportunities in the transmission of audit findings in the digital age. 37
38 Fifth meeting of the Global Audit Leadership Forum in April 2018, where the presidents of around twenty Supreme Audit Institutions from around the world met in the European Court of Auditors Europe Day – EU Open Day In May 2018, we attended the events on the occasion of Europe Day in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg.
At the information booths, visitors could obtain information from our examiners about our role and work and learn first-hand how tests are carried out.
We will continue to organise open days in the European Court of Auditors and participate in public events to get in touch with citizens.
Symposium on Good Public Administration In September 2018, we attended a symposium on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and Public Governance entitled "Good Public Administration and Benefits for Citizens – The Role of Parliamentary Control Bodies", organised by the Austrian Court of Auditors, the Secretariat of INTOSAI and the Austrian People's Prosecutor's Office.
Conference on the Application of Union Law In September 2018, we hosted a conference on the application of Union law, which then discussed the need for accountability, transparency and scrutiny of our Landscape analysis on the application of Union law in practice.
This event was held in the Committee of the Regions in Brussels.
Conference on e-commerce and related taxation In October 2018, we hosted a conference on e-commerce and the challenges of taxation in the digital age.
Speakers and panel participants discussed the risks of the current tax model for VAT in e-commerce and suggested alternative tax models aimed at using modern technology, such as blockchain.
Conference of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority (EIOPA) In November 2018, we participated in the eighth annual conference of EIOPA in Frankfurt.
The conference brought together more than 400 people from the financial services sector, academia, consumer organisations, the media, international organisations, EU institutions and national authorities.
The Court presented its audit work on supervision and financial stability in the European insurance sector – the subject of the 2018 Special Report on EIOPA. 39
COP24 In December 2018, we participated in the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP24) in Katowice.
We presented our assessment work on air quality and its impact on climate change and vice versa and discussed the challenges of desertification and land depletion in the EU – both topics were addressed in special reports we published in 2018.
Janusz Wojciechowski, member of the Court, at the presentation of our special report on air quality in December 2018 in Katowice School Project Day Throughout the year, the Court staff participated in the school project day organised by the EU institutions.
17 of our staff attended secondary schools in seven Member States and informed the pupils about the EU, the role of our institution and the possibilities of studying in the EU and working with the EU institutions. 40
Relations with institutional addressees The impact of our work depends on the benefits of our institutional addressees We work closely with the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and national parliaments, as the impact of our work depends to a large extent on the benefits of our audit results and recommendations.
European Parliament The number of reports discussed in parliamentary committees is a record record The Court members and audit teams are regularly invited to present their findings and recommendations to the Committee on Budgetary Control and other committees of the European Parliament and other bodies.
During 2018, we presented to Parliament 33 special reports, four opinions and six analysis-based publications.
In total, we attended 74 meetings with the Committee on Budgetary Control (2017: 60) and 38 meetings with 13 other parliamentary committees and working groups and with political groups in Parliament.
The joint annual meeting of Court representatives with the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control took place in February 2018.
In April 2018, President Lehne took part in the debate in the plenary session of the European Parliament on the discharge procedure for 2016.
In October 2018, he presented the Court's annual report for the financial year 2017 to the Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and to the plenary. 41
44 presentations were also held for other relevant Council preparatory bodies (2017: 27).
During the year, we presented 37 special reports, four opinions and three analysis-based publications to the Council (2017: 27).
In January 2018, during the Bulgarian Presidency, President Lehne met with the Deputy Minister of Finance of Bulgaria to discuss key audit findings regarding the 2016 discharge procedure.
In March 2018, President Lehne and Neven Mates, the Court's Special Report on Macroeconomic Imbalance, presented the report to EU finance ministers during the ECOFIN (Economic and Financial Affairs) Council meeting.
Thus, a special report was presented to the EU finance ministers of the ECOFIN Council for the first time.
President Lehne also presented our annual report 2017 at the ECOFIN meeting in November, during the Austrian Presidency.
Before the meeting, President Lehne met the Austrian Federal Minister for Finance, in his capacity as Chairman of the Council on Economic and Financial Affairs, and the Minister for Public Finance of Romania – this Member State held the Presidency at the beginning of 2019 – to discuss with them our annual report 2017 and the corresponding discharge procedure and to inform them of other relevant activities of the Court.
First presentation of a special report before ECOFIN 42
Member State governments and parliaments Meeting of the President of the Court with senior government representatives in five Member States During the year, President Lehne visited many EU Member States – Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Ireland and Romania – and met with high-level government representatives.
These visits were often combined with participation in an official State event or high-level conference.
In addition, the Court members presented the 2017 Annual Report to national parliaments and/or other national authorities of 14 Member States.
We also took the opportunity to present some of our special reports to the relevant parliamentary committees of national parliaments.
Delegations from national parliaments visit the Court on occasion and we continue to explore ways of further deepening our cooperation with national parliaments.
Mr Lehne, President of the European Court of Auditors, and George Pufan, Member of the Court, at a meeting with Klaus Iohannis, President of Romania, in Bucharest in October 2018 43
Cooperation with EU Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKBs) In active cooperation with EU SAIs: joint call to address weaknesses in the accountability and audit rules for EU banking supervision Our cooperation with EU Member States' Supreme Audit Institutions is primarily carried out within the framework of the EU ORKB Presidents' Contact Committee.
In October 2018, we actively participated in the annual meeting of the Contact Committee, which was hosted by the SAIs of Croatia under their own chairmanship.
The discussions focused on interaction with EU citizens and on making the SAIs accessible to the public.
Court President Klaus-Heiner Lehne speaks to the President of the EU-ORKB at the annual meeting of the Contact Committee in Dubrovnik, Croatia, in October 2018 Together with the Presidents of the Supreme Audit Institutions of the 28 Member States, we appealed to national governments and parliaments, as well as to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, to address a number of weaknesses in the accountability and audit arrangements for EU banking supervision.
The Court also participated and participated in the activities of several working bodies of the Contact Committee, including the Working Group on Value Added Tax, the Financial Policy Audit Network, the Europe 2020 Review Network and the European Banking Union Task Force, and other activities in the areas of financial reporting in the public sector and public procurement audit.
The Court also coordinated the preparation of the first examination compendium of the Contact Committee (Youth unemployment and the vocational integration of young people), based on audit reports drawn up by 14 EU-ORCs between 2013 and 2017.
With the publication of the examination compendium, the Contact Committee will present a new product 44
INTOSAI/EUROSAI In 2018, we continued our active participation and participation in the activities of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), in particular in our role as Deputy Chair of the Committee on Technical Standards (since December 2016) and as a member of the Subcommittee for Auditing Accounting and Accounting, the Subcommittee for Auditing Compliance with Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits.
We also actively participated in the activities of other INTOSAI working bodies, including the peer reviews subcommittee, the environmental audit working group, the working group on financial modernisation and regulatory reform, and the task force on the professionalisation of auditors.
We also actively participated in the activities of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI), the European Regional Group of INTOSAI, in particular the Working Group on Environmental Audit, the Working Group on IT Audit, the Task Force on Audit & Ethics, as well as in several workshops and seminars.
The SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries of the EU We also support the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo1, Montenegro, northern Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey), primarily through a network comparable to the Contact Committee and through our support for activities coordinated by the OECD.
In 2018, seven SAI auditors from the network participated in our internship program.
We also actively contributed to the meetings and activities of this network, including the treatment of issues such as auditing accounting and IT auditing.
Our Management The College of Court Members The term of office of the Court's members is six years, with reappointment permitted.
The College shall be composed of one member from each Member State.
The ECA does not play a role in the appointment and appointment of members.
In 2018, the Council appointed four new members: o Eva Lindström (Sweden), Tony Murphy (Ireland) and Hannu Takkula (Finland) on 1 March 2018 and Annemie Turtelboom (Belgium) on 1 May 2018.
In addition, five members of the Council were extended by the Council: o Pietro Russo (Italy), Baudilio Tomé Muguruza (Spain), Bettina Jakobsen (Denmark) and João Figueiredo (Portugal) until 29 February 2024 and Iliana Ivanova (Bulgaria) until 31 December 2024.
In 2018, the College of Court Members met 18 times (2017: 21 times).
46th meeting of the College of Court Members in Luxembourg on 28 February 2019
The role of the President is that of a first among equals (Primus inter Pares).
Its remit is to address the institution's strategy, planning and performance management, communication and media work, legal issues and internal audit.
He also represents the Court in all its external relations.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected President in September 2016.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne, President of the Court, at his speech at the annual meeting of the College of Court Members and the College of Commissioners in Luxembourg in February 2018 47
The President and Members 48
Examination chambers and committees The members are assigned to one of the Court's five examination chambers.
They shall be under the direction of a Doyen or a Doyenne elected by the members from among their members.
Each member is responsible for his or her specific tasks and is assisted by his or her cabinet.
The examination work is carried out by professional examiners working for the boards of the examination chambers.
As of December 2018, the five examination chambers were headed by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Milionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Neven Mates and Lazaros S. Lazarou.
Danièle Lamarque was chair of the Quality Control Committee, Oscar Herics headed our Ethics Committee and Samo Jereb our Audit Committee, while Rimantas Šadžius was the member responsible for institutional relations.
Decisions on more far-reaching strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President.
The European Court of Auditors comprises ten Directorates for all its fields of work, five of which are assigned to the audit chambers, one to the audit quality control, another to the President and three to the Secretary-General.
Secretary-General and Directors Peter WELCH Director KAMMER 1 Gerhard ROSS Director KAMMER 2 Philippe FROIDURE Director KAMMER 3 Ioanna METAXOPOULOU Director KAMMER 4 Mariusz POMIENSKI Director KAMMER 5 Martin WEBER Director, President Geoffrey SIMPSON Director, Quality Control Committee in the audit area Gailė DAGILIEN; Director, Translation, Language Services and Publication Zacharias KOLIAS Director, Personnel, Finance and General Services Magdalena CORDERO VALDAVIDA Director, Information, Environment and Innovation Eduardo RUIZ GARCÍA Secretary-General 49
Performance Measurement Our new key performance indicators in the 2018-2020 strategy Since 2008, we have been using Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to inform management of progress towards our goals, support the decision-making process and provide our users with information on our performance.
We not only set our strategy for 2018-2020, but also adjusted our KPIs for this period.
Thus, 2018 is the first year in which we can report on these indicators.
These five KPIs provide a comprehensive overview of how we work as an organisation in terms of dissemination, impact and perception. o KPI 1 – Implementation of our recommendations o KPI 2 – Stakeholders' feedback on our work (returns from stakeholders to the Court's work) o KPI 3 – Our approaches in the European Parliament, Council and national parliaments o KPI 4 – Number of special reports (and similar products) published (number of special reports [and similar products]) o KPI 5 – Our presence in the media (court's media presence) 50
51 Number of Special Reports and Similar Products in 2018 We monitor the number and timing of reports published throughout the year.
This provides an indication of the accuracy of our planning.
Of the 47 reports planned for 2018, 44 were published: 35 special reports, six thematic papers, two landscape analyses and a quick analysis.
In addition to the selected audits provided for in our work programme, we gave ten opinions.
Special reports and similar products 50 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 44 30 2017 2018 Our appearances in the European Parliament, the Council of the EU and in national parliaments Most of our audit reports are presented to the relevant committee of the European Parliament and the Council of the EU.
In addition, most of the Court's members present our annual reports to the national parliament of their respective Member States.
In 2018, representatives of the Court spoke to the European Parliament 133 times (2017: 91), 65 times in the Council (2017: 47) and 50 times in the presence of national parliaments (2017: 19).
This represents a significant increase compared to 2017.
Court appearances in 2018: European Parliament, Council and national parliaments 52 European Parliament 91 EU Council 47 133 65 50 National Parliaments 19 2017 2018 Media presence Number of online articles and contributions in social media almost tripled Since 2018, we have been in closer contact with the media and non-institutional stakeholders and are much more active in social media.
We have o 76 press releases in 23 EU languages (2017: 57) and o 20 press briefings held in Brussels (2017: 16), including press briefings for the annual report, including briefings on both the sector and the Member States concerned.
We also received journalists from Brussels and Member States and offered several briefings to industry stakeholders, NGOs and think tanks on selected reports.
53 Visits to Luxembourg by Member State journalists in November 2018 We follow media coverage of our work and our institution, which may vary considerably depending on the topic and complexity of a report.
At the same time, we must take into account that external factors can strongly influence the media's interest in our publications.
For example, if the date of publication coincides with an important event or political development, public interest in the subject may increase significantly.
The total number of media reports, including social media, has almost tripled: while there were around 15,500 online articles and contributions in the social media in 2017, their number has increased to more than 44,000 in 2018.
Social media posts posted by the Court's official accounts regarding our publications were displayed around 11 million times in 2018, almost 18 times more than in 2017.
Special reports are clearly our flagship product in terms of media coverage As regards communication and media coverage, the special reports have clearly become our flagship product. Twelve of the Court's 15 most successful publications in 2018 were special reports.
In that year, there were more than 11,000 online articles on our special reports, which means that the number has increased by more than double the number compared to 2017.
On the other hand, the total number of online articles in 2013 was 1,500 – the year we started to persecute media coverage.
Compared to 2017, the average number of media reports per special report increased by 60%.
This means that our presence in the media has increased not only because of a higher number of reports, but also because of a greater interest in our publications.
Media coverage of annual reports, special reports and the ECA in general 54 online articles Social media Total Online articles Social media Total Online articles Social media Total Online articles Total of 6 297 0 10 000 20 000 30 000 40 000 960 207 952 2 425 1 912 2 632 4 762 9 159 1 535 The special report on the European high-speed rail network has had the greatest impact – with over 4 400 online articles and contributions in social media 11 682 20 841 7752 11198 13 535 2018 18 152 21 287 29 350 2017 Most of the media reports in 2018 concerned our special reports on the European high-speed rail network, the efficiency of the European Central Bank's management of crisis management for banks and the facility for refugees in Turkey.
The court has five social media accounts: * This number indicates how many times our posts have been displayed.
Throughout the year, we have seen an exponential increase in our presence and engagement in social media, especially on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, which are now an essential part of our communication activities and enable us to engage in direct exchanges with citizens.
The number of our followers and subscribers and the number of our impressions, which shows how often our posted posts were displayed, have increased.
55 followers/subscribers 2018 Increase compared to 2017 number of impressions* 7 674 31 % 3 419 137 10 080 23 % 256 268 4 800 83 % 9 590 234 869 27 % 117 800 1 134 149 % n.a.
Impact and perception of our work Our reports – useful and effective We evaluate the impact and perception of our work on the basis of assessments by the recipients. Another evaluation criterion is the follow-up measures that are taken based on our recommendations to improve EU financial management.
At the beginning of 2018, we started to ask our stakeholders (from the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, EU agencies, permanent representations of Member States, Member States' public bodies, national SAIs, NGOs, science, the media, etc.) for feedback on the usefulness and likely impact of our reports.
These feedbacks concern selected special reports and analyses, as well as the Court's annual reports, and are obtained by anonymous electronic surveys from all those who have previously received a copy of these reports.
This survey will also enable stakeholders to provide qualitative feedback on reports and make general proposals on the Court's work.
Overall, 87% of respondents confirmed the usefulness of our reports for their work and 78% agreed to them.
56 Report relevance 15 42 30 12 1 Report likely impact 0 % 10 % 20 % 30 % 40 % 50 % 60 % 70 % 90 % 100 % Very high High Medium Low Very low 7 30 41 18 4
Follow-up to our recommendations Most of our recommendations have been implemented Since 2018, we have been using a follow-up carried out by our auditors as a basis for this indicator instead of the European Commission's management statement.
For 2018, we analysed the recommendations made in our 2014 Special Reports and the annual report of the same year.
This analysis shows that 74% of the recommendations we made in our 2014 Annual Report and 94% of the recommendations in our 2014 Special Reports have been fully, largely or partially implemented.
Implementation of the Court's recommendations after the year of the tax 57 Implementation of the Court's recommendations in the 2014 Annual Report 10 % 10 % 32% 32% 10 % Implementation of the Court's recommendations as a result of the audit carried out in 2014 6% 19% 17% 58% Fully implemented Implementation Implementation partially implemented Insufficient evidence Not applicable Not implemented
Our staff staff at the end of 2018 employed 834 temporary officials and staff at the European Court of Auditors.
The Court's establishment plan included 853 permanent and scheduled posts, including 541 in the examination chambers, including 112 posts in the members' cabinets.
Our staff's areas of activity: Examination services, translation, administration and services of the President 58 Examination services 541 Translation Administration Presidential services 135 A total of 853 129 48 In addition, 76 contract staff and 15 seconded national experts were employed at the Court at the end of the year.
Recruitment The staff of the Court have a broad academic and professional background.
With our recruitment policy, we follow the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions and promote equal opportunities at all levels.
In 2018, the Court hired 79 staff: 15 officials, 32 temporary staff, 22 contract staff and ten seconded national experts.
We also provided 60 university graduates with internships for periods of three to five months.
Age profile The age profile of the active staff on 31 December 2018 shows that almost half of our employees are 44 years old or younger.
30 of the 64 directors and executive managers of the Court (47%) are 55 years old or older.
Age profile 59 20-24 25-29 30-34 35-39 40-44 45-49 50-54 55-59 60-64 65+ 0%  
Overall, we have achieved a balanced proportion of women and men among our employees; 45% of our auditors and boards are women.
Relationship between men and women at the level of responsibility 60 34% 66% 55% 45% 62% 38% Assistants and Secretaries Auditors and Boards Management 0% 20% 40% 60% Male 80% 100% Female We continue to advocate a balanced relationship between women and men at all levels of management.
In recent years, for example, we have managed to increase the proportion of women in management positions in our examination chambers, which was still 7% at the end of 2015, to almost 24% at the end of 2018.
Our equal opportunities policy for the period 2018-2020 also concerns issues related to age and disability.
Managers by nationality and sex 61
Supporting audit activities Professional further training Training: how we prepare our staff and the Court for the future In line with the recommendations published by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), we strive to provide each auditor with an average of 40 hours (five days) of professional training per year.
In 2018, we were once again above this target with 6.9 training days per examiner.
We have also expanded the range of training courses that we offer to employees both inside and outside the examination area, and have helped examiners to obtain various certifications.
We continued our successful series of presentations, which were held by internal or external experts on developments in the field of audit or other topics relating to the work of our auditors.
We continued our "Performance Recognition Awards" program, which allows non-managerial employees to participate in specific external training.
Average number of training days per year 7.0 6.7 6.9 Objective ≥ 2 days 2016 2017 Per examiner 2018 4.0 2016 2.3 3.1 2017 2018 Objective ≥ 5 days Per non-examiner 62 days
Successful cooperation with educational institutions We have signed a partnership agreement with the College of Europe (Brügge, Belgium) which provides for cooperation in several areas, including training, traineeships and reports.
We have also concluded agreements with the European Institute for Public Administration and other organisations on cooperation, which will enable our staff to attend training organised by these institutions.
We continued and expanded our cooperation with the University of Lorraine: We offered the postgraduate course "Audit of public organisations and policies" and the Master's programme "Management of public organisations". In addition, we have designed a new postgraduate program called "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit" (basics of statistics in the examination area).
Finally, auditors from other SAIs took part in our internal training sessions, some of which shared their experience in illustrating reports on the annual Court Training Day, which was attended by more than 450 people.
Interactive public online courses We made our online business assessment training available to the public and held two interactive seminars with a capacity of more than 150 participants from all over the world.
Translation The Court's Translation, Language Services and Publication Directorate translated and revised more than 251 000 pages in 2018, an increase of more than 18% compared to 2017.
This increase also led to a higher outsourcing rate.
In addition, all our translation teams are now using harmonised working methods.
The translators have been increasingly involved in the Court's audit activities by providing linguistic support during audit visits and in the preparation of most reports.
This enabled us to create further synergies with our auditors.
The publication team is now a full part of the Directorate.
Review of originals for translation and finally for publication, integrated into a single, optimized workflow.
Information, Work Environment and Innovation Our Information, Work Environment and Innovation Directorate supports our employees in the effective and efficient use of information technologies, by promoting innovation and knowledge management.
Information Management We have launched a new initiative called tECAway, which gives our employees access to the network on the go.
This will allow them to access the Court's digital resources and services on all devices, anywhere and at any time.
The Court has created a new harmonised document management system and has introduced multi-function printing, photocopiering and scanning equipment.
We expect these devices to have a beneficial impact on information security and paper consumption.
We have also introduced a new governance model in cybersecurity and are currently working on implementing the cybersecurity plan.
All IT projects and IT solutions have taken due account of the maintenance of business operations, ensuring the full availability of critical systems.
Innovation We have also established the ECAB, an interdisciplinary innovation laboratory whose focus is on digitising the examination area by using data and technology.
ECAB tests the use of technologies such as artificial intelligence, natural language processing and text mining in real test tasks.
This support has already benefited from several tasks and publications.
We also carried out a pilot project on the use of blockchain technologies for notarial certification of audit evidence and publications.
The resulting prototype, the ECA registry, was selected by the European Blockchain Partnership, established by EU Member States and the Commission, as part of the European Blockchain Services Infrastructure, which will be developed from 2019.
Knowledge Management In July 2018, our first annual summer course in the field of public financial control was held, which we organized together with the University of Pisa and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA).
45 people from SAIs, EU institutions and universities attended the summer course, which focused on data analysis for exams.
We also held a conference on blockchain, which explored the possibilities offered by this technology and its practical applications for controlling EU expenditure.
This conference was mainly aimed at participants from other EU institutions.
Building The yard currently has three buildings ("K1, "K2" and "K3") which form a single integrated technical unit.
The Court also provides office space for its Centre for the Recovery of Data in Luxembourg.
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees, and there are meeting rooms, a conference room with interpreting booths, video conference rooms, a cafeteria and a basic kitchen area.
A detailed study of this project will be carried out in 2019 and work is expected to begin at the end of this year.
As approved by the European Parliament and Council in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining funds of the K3 construction project completed a few years ago to finance this modernisation.
K3 The K3 building was opened in 2012.
Based on the world's leading method for assessing and certifying the sustainability of buildings (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method, BREEAM), the K3 building was rated "very good".
A new security control centre and an external accreditation and access control centre for employees and visitors was put into operation in September 2018.
The main EurH building "K1" and the new safety control centre in Rue Alcide De Gasperi, Luxembourg Environmental management As an institution of the European Union, it is our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all activities.
We are therefore endeavouring to reduce the environmental impact of the farm steadily.
We now successfully operate an EMAS-compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015.
As part of our goal of systematically reducing our CO2 emissions, we regularly examine greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities.
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2017 amounted to a total of 10 451 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), which represents a 3% reduction compared to 2016.
2018 was the fourth consecutive year for which the Court examined its carbon footprint.
67 Court's accountability Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union, with its budget falling within the area of administrative expenditure.
In 2018, the Court's budget amounted to around 146 million euros.
This represents less than 0.1% of total EU expenditure and around 1.5% of total EU administrative expenditure.
The share of the 2018 budget appropriations used was 96%.
The implementation of the budget 2018 68 BUDGFFNN 2018 Final appropriations Commitments Appropriations used Use of appropriations in % payments Amounts in % payments Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 – Members of the institution 12 265 11 245 92% 11 186 12 – Officials and temporary staff 105 044 102 543 98 % 543 98 % 102 528 14 – Other staff and external services 6 335 5 914 93 % 5 825 162 – Missions 3 450 3 050 88 % 2 050 88 % 2 537 161 + 163 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff 2 990 of the institution 2 883 96% 96% 96% 2 2 221 Subtotal Title 1 130 0808 8 707 99% 99% 4 714 212 % % + 214 + 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 1 129 1 066 94% 749 749 23 – Running expenditure on the operation of the operation of the operation 14 822 210 % 1 822 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 8 708 8 707 907 99 % 4 714 2122 % % % % +2 +2 + 2142 +222 + 214 214 + 214 +22222 + 214 + 214 + 214 + 216 — Other16 — Mobile — Other — Other — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
Budget 2019 The 2019 budget increases by 0.6% on 2018 in the appropriations.
69 BUDGET 2019 2018 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 – Members of the institution 11 474 12 515 12 – Officials and staff of the institution 107 666 106 600 14 – Other staff and external services 6 381 5 745 162 – Missions 3 450 3 450 161 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for the members and staff of the institution 3 098 2 990 Subtotal Title 1 132 069 131 300 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 20 – Buildings 2 984 2 930 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 7 605 7 492 212 + 214 + 216 – Mobile and ancillary costs 998 1 157 23 – Current operating expenditure 548 555 25 – Meetings and conferences 700 706 27 – Information and publications 1 986 1 876 Subtotal Title 2 14 821 14 716 European Court of Auditors total 146 890 146 016
Internal and external audit Internal audit The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk management issues.
It provides independent and objective guarantees and provides advisory services designed to increase and improve the value of the Court's activities.
In addition, this department shall report to the Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee shall monitor regularly progress on the various tasks set out in the annual work programme of the Internal Audit Service and ensure the independence of the Office.
In 2018, she conducted an audit of the Court's cybersecurity systems and construction work on its perimeter protection.
The department also examined the implementation of the Court's risk management policy and the declarations made annually by the authorising officers by delegation.
It also monitored the implementation of its previous recommendations to ensure that the agreed action plans had taken shape.
In 2018, the audit of the department did not reveal any deficiencies that, due to their nature or extent, would seriously jeopardise the reliability of the internal control systems as a whole, which were introduced by the authorising officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations.
We report annually to the European Parliament and the Council on the results of internal audit work.
External control Our annual accounts are audited by an independent auditor.
This is an important aspect of the Court's approach to applying the same transparency and accountability principles to itself as to the bodies it examines.
The auditor's report — PricewaterhouseCoopers Sàrl. — on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2017 was published on 17 May 2018. 70
The Court's annual accounts are published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
1) and its subsequent amendments, hereinafter referred to as "the Financial Regulation", and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 of 29 October 2012 on the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation and its subsequent amendments.';
Regarding the use of resources and the Court's control procedures, "In our work described in this report, we have not encountered facts that we would have to conclude that, in all essential respects and taking into account the above assessment criteria, the funds allocated to the Court have not been used for the purposes envisaged and that the control procedures established do not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations have been carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
Discharge Like the other EU institutions, the Court is also subject to the discharge procedure.
In April 2018, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2016.
As in every year, we have carefully analysed the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility, taken appropriate measures and reported to the European Parliament in detail on our follow-up.
On 26 March 2019, the European Parliament granted discharge to our Secretary-General for the financial year 2017.
This means that our financial statements for 2017 have been finally approved.
Peer Reviews Peer Reviews mean independent and transparent expert reviews of the capabilities of a particular SAI that are performed by other SAI.
Each SAI participating in the peer review shall continue to respect the independence of the other SAI during the implementation.
We asked the SAIs of Estonia (Leading SAIs), Denmark, the Netherlands and the United States of America in 2018 to assess whether the Court is on its way to achieving its strategic objectives at mid-term of the 2018-2020 period and whether it is likely that the measures we have implemented so far will have the desired impact.
The peer review report is expected to be published in early 2019.
At the same time, we started to prepare the peer review of the SAIs of Lithuania together with the SAIs of Poland and the United Kingdom.
The main objective of this expert assessment will be to assess whether the SAI approach to the assessment of the SAIs of Lithuania is in line with international standards.
We also commissioned an external and independent evaluation of the Court's ethical framework during the year.
This peer review is carried out by the audit offices of Croatia and Poland.
The audit report is expected to be available in 2019. 72
Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation I, the undersigned Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declare in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, o that the information contained in this report is accurate and accurate, and o confirms with reasonable certainty that o the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes provided and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, o the control procedures established provide the necessary assurance for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for the appropriate handling of fraud or suspected fraud, o the costs and benefits of the controls are proportionate.
Done at Luxembourg, 28 March 2019 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 73
Annex – Publications in 2018: Special reports, annual reports, opinions and analysis-based products Special reports o Special report No 01/2018: Joint assistance in support of projects in European regions (JASPERS) – Time for better orientation o Special report No 02/2018: The efficiency of the ECB's management in the field of crisis management for banks o Special report No 03/2018: Examination of the Macroeconomic Imbalance Procedure (MIP) o Special report No 04/2018: EU assistance to Myanmar/Burma o Special report No 05/2018: Renewable energy for sustainable rural development: significant but largely unused synergy potential o Special report No 06/2018: Free movement of workers – basic freedom is guaranteed, but a better target orientation of EU funds would promote worker mobility o Special report No 07/2018: EU pre-accession assistance to Turkey: limited results to date o Special report No 08/2018: EU support for productive investments in enterprises – greater focus on sustainability o Special report No 09/2018: Common approach to development: non-discriminatory approach to EU projects and non-discriminatory approach to EU aid in respect of the implementation of the specific measure No 09/2018: Non-discriminatory approach to the implementation of the specific measure of the farm premium in respect of the EU
The annual report of the EU budget for 2017 (EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EFF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EF Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EF Annual Report, EIF Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EF Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EH Annual Report, EH Annual Report, EH Annual Report, EH Annual Report, EH Annual Report, EH Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, EIL Annual Report, E I
CURRENCY NOTICE © European Union, 2019.
Reproduction is permitted with the source.
The permission to use or reproduce the following images must be obtained directly from the copyright holders: p. 30, © Croix-Rouge française (French Red Cross).
© European Medicines Agency (European Medicines Agency) The following images are allowed, stating the copyright holder, the source and the names of the photographers and architects: S. 1, 5, 12, 13, 14, 24, 28, 38, 40, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 49, 53, © EU / European Court of Auditors, p. 9, © EU / European Court of Auditors, p. 20, from left to right, from top to bottom: © EU / European Parliament © EU, 2005 / Audiovisual service of the European Commission / Alain Schroeder © EU, 2010 / Carlos Juan © EU, 2008 / European Parliament © EU, 2013 / AFP / Ronny Hartmann © EU, 2016 / Yasin Akgul © EU, 2017 / Mauro Bottaro © EU, 2017 / Frank Molter © EU, 2017 / Mauro Bottaro S. 22, © EU, 2008 / European Parliament S. 23, © EU / Eurostat – GISCO, 02/2018, source data: © EuroGeograph, 2018 / EU, No.
THE EU CONTACT A visit The European Union has hundreds of Europe Direct Information Offices.
Contact Europe Direct - via the freephone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (some telephone service providers charge fees), - via the standard number: +32 22999696 or - via email: http://europa.eu/contact INFORMATION ON THE EU On the Internet On the Europa portal you can find information on the European Union in all official languages: http://europa.eu EU publications You can download or order EU publications, in part free of charge, at the EU Bookshop: http://publications.europa.eu/eubookshop.
If you wish to obtain several copies of a free publication, please contact Europe Direct or the information office nearby (see http://europa.eu/contact).
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU legislation since 1951 in all official languages, is available in EUR-Lex at http://eur-lex.europa.eu EU Open Data via its Open Data Portal (http://data.europa.eu/euodp) and the EU Datasets.
ISBN 978-92-847-1882-5 QJ-AA-19-001-EN-C
EN Our Activities in 2019 Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2020 Print ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 PDF ISBN 978-92-847-4585-2 HTML ISBN978-92-847-4572-2 ISSN 1684-0666 ISSN 2315-3903 ISSN 2315-3903 doi:10.2865/6146 doi:10.2865/105562 doi:10.2865/263527 QJ-AA-20-001-EN-C QJ-AA-20-001-EN-N QJ-AA-20-001-EN-Q
Our Activities in 2019 Annual Activity Report of the European Court of Auditors
2 The College of Members of the European Court of Auditors in January 2020.
Content President's Preface 6 2019 at a glance 7 Our Activities 9 Strategy 9 Audit of the economic and regularity of EU measures 10 Work programme 11 Audit work on the ground 12 Audit reports, analyses and opinions 15 Cross-cutting topics 32 Institutional relations 34 Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (ORCB) 39 Our Management 43 Members 43 Audit chambers and committees 45 Performance measurement 47 Our staff 54 Personnel allocation 54 Recruitment 54 Age profile 55 Equal opportunities 55 3
4 Support for audit activities 57 Professional training 57 Translation 59 Information technology, working environment and innovation 59 Building 61 Further increase of our safety measures 63 Environmental management 64 Court accountability 65 Financial information 65 Internal and external audit 67 Statement by the authorising officer by delegation 70
European Court of Auditors 5 Who we are o external auditors of the European Union; o established in 1975 by the Treaty of Brussels; taking up office in October 1977; since the Maastricht Treaty of 1993 full-fledged EU institution; o head office in Luxembourg; o one member per EU Member State appointed by the Council after consulting the European Parliament; o about 900 employees of all EU nationalities.
Our role o We ensure that the EU ensures proper accounting, that its financial rules are correctly applied and that its policies and programmes achieve its objectives and that the best use of resources is made. o We contribute to improving the financial management of the EU and to promoting accountability and transparency. o We warn against risks, provide audit certainty, point to weaknesses and successes and provide guidance to policy-makers and legislators of the Union. o We make our comments and recommendations to the European Parliament, the Council, national governments and parliaments and the general public.
The year 2019 was marked by many changes for the Union: elections to the European Parliament took place and a new European Commission took office.
The strategic priorities have been redefined and important packages of measures such as the "European Green Deal" or the "Digital Future of Europe" (early 2020) have been launched.
Towards the end of the year it became clear that we would now be a Union of 27 Member States.
At the same time, the EU is at a significant crossroads in terms of its finances.
We are about to conclude negotiations on the next Multiannual Financial Framework, which will be decisive for the Union's financing capacity over the next seven years.
All EU institutions must now build on the efforts made so far to further improve the Union's financial management and ensure that the EU delivers results.
As external auditors, we offer an impartial assessment of the Union's policies and programmes and the quality of EU financial management within and outside the Union.
We are looking at whether EU expenditure is in line with the rules and whether Union policies and programmes ensure optimal use of funds.
This activity report provides an overview of our work in 2019, in which we published a large number of highly up-to-date special reports, analyses and opinions.
You will also find information about our employees, our management and our finances.
We hope that this information will be useful to you.
We are publishing our Annual Activity Report this year at a time when public health in the EU and its Member States is facing an unprecedented challenge due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Our institution has responded rapidly to this situation in accordance with the health and safety instructions of the Luxembourg Government.
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their good work and for their willingness to adapt flexibly to the current situation.
We must now stand together and do everything we can to continue to fulfil our role as external auditors of the EU in these difficult times.
Klaus-Heiner Lehne President 6
7 2019 at a glance
8 Our Activities Strategy To continue to shape developments in the field of public financial control, we rely on multiannual strategies to make long-term choices for our audit work and to drive forward initiatives for organizational change with a view to continuous improvements.
At the end of 2019, we had completed the second year of our current strategy for 2018-2020.
In this three-year period, we set ourselves the following strategic objectives: improving the added value of the Statement of Assurance; focusing more on the performance aspects of EU actions; providing clear statements for our audience.
In order to implement our strategy in practice, we have agreed on an action plan covering these objectives.
Over the last two years, we have made good progress in implementing our strategic objectives.
In all the areas envisaged, a number of initiatives and projects have been launched, sometimes even beyond the objectives of the Action Plan, in particular: o a pilot phase of the test-based audit approach with a view to drawing up the Statement of Assurance, which has led to useful lessons; o a significant increase in the number of economic audits and analytical products and a wider range of issues, including both EU expenditure and regulation; o better contact with the European Parliament and greater visibility in traditional and social media.
During the year, a group of four Supreme Audit Institutions (Estonia, Netherlands, Denmark and United States) conducted a peer review of our strategy.
Our peers' report was published in March 2020, just in time to provide valuable impetus for our next strategy from 2021.
Good progress in implementing our strategy 9
Auditing the efficiency and regularity of EU policies Auditing the performance of EU policies and programmes, accounting audits and compliance audits Our audit reviews examine the effectiveness, efficiency and economy of EU policies and programmes.
The focus is on issues that reflect EU-relevant issues such as sustainable and environmentally friendly use of natural resources, growth and inclusion, challenges related to migration and global development, the internal market and banking union, and ensuring the accountability and economic viability of the European Union.
These audits are intended to help the EU achieve its policy objectives better.
Our audits of the accounts and our compliance audits lead to our statement of reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying them.
We may also carry out selected compliance audits to examine the Union's budgetary and financial management or to assess whether the management and control systems established for the collection and use of EU funds are in line with the applicable EU and national rules.
Our audits are in line with internationally recognised auditing principles for the public sector. 10
Work Programme Strategic Perspectives In 2019, we continued to embed the strategic perspective in our audit work in order to better address the key future challenges for the EU through a forward-looking approach.
To this end, we have set up an Advisory Committee on Strategy and Perspectives.
One of the current tasks of this Committee, which is composed of five members, is to monitor the development of the post-2020 strategy.
Audit priorities with a view to the topics relevant to the future of the EU Our work programme was published in October 2019, presenting our audit priorities for the coming years and the 41 reports and analyses, the publication of which is scheduled for 2020.
With our audits planned for 2020 and beyond, we will continue to provide the citizens of the Union and policy makers with independent reports on issues relevant to the future of the EU.
We are preparing the work programme for our audits in an independent way, but not in complete isolation from our environment.
It is therefore of the utmost importance for us to work with our institutional stakeholders, especially the European Parliament.
As usual, at the beginning of 2019, we asked all parliamentary committees to propose possible audit topics for our work programme. 11
Examination work on site The majority of our examination work takes place in our premises in Luxembourg.
Our auditors also carry out numerous audit visits to the European Commission – our main audited body – and also to the other EU institutions, as well as to the EU agencies and bodies, national, regional and local authorities in the Member States, EU delegations in third countries and international organisations to which EU funds are allocated.
We also carry out on-site audits of beneficiaries of EU funds within and outside the EU.
These audits will enable us to track the audit trail and obtain direct audit evidence from and from the beneficiaries of such funds from the bodies involved in the management of Union policies and programmes and the collection or disbursement of EU funds.
In line with the objective set out in the EU Financial Regulation, we are committed to completing our selected audits within 13 months. 12
3 605 days of on-site audit work – inside and outside the EU Our audit teams usually consist of two to three auditors, and the duration of an audit visit may be a few days, but also several weeks.
Within the EU, our on-site audits are generally coordinated with the Supreme Audit Institutions of the Member States concerned.
13 The frequency and intensity of our audit work in each Member State and recipient country depend on the type of audit we carry out.
In 2019, our auditors spent 3 605 days (2018: 3 671 days) with on-site inspections – in the Member States and outside the EU.
In addition, our auditors spent 2,504 days (2018: 2,723 days) with the EU institutions in Brussels and Luxembourg, as well as with decentralised agencies and bodies throughout the EU, international organisations such as the United Nations or the OECD, as well as with audit firms.
To interact with our audited bodies, we are increasingly using video conferencing and other information technologies, such as secure data and document exchange. 14
Audit reports, analyses and opinions Our audit reports, analyses and opinions form an important link in the EU's accountability chain.
They help the European Parliament and the Council to monitor and verify whether the EU achieves its policy objectives and to hold the bodies responsible for the EU's financial management accountable, in particular in the context of the annual discharge procedure.
Special reports and analytical products In line with our strategy for 2018-2020, we have increasingly focused on assessing the performance of EU action in recent years.
In 2019, we published 36 special reports and analyses addressing many of the challenges facing the Union in the various EU spending areas, such as food safety, renewable energy, electronic commerce, border controls, budgetary governance and ethical frameworks in selected EU institutions, to name just a few. 15
16 In our special reports, we examine whether the objectives of selected EU policies and programmes have been achieved, whether the results have been achieved in an effective and economic way and whether EU action has created added value – i.e. whether they have achieved more than could be achieved by action at national level alone.
We also make recommendations on financial savings, better working methods, avoiding waste or achieving more effective policy objectives.
Our analyses are intended to provide introductory descriptions and analytical considerations, often from a cross-sectional perspective and based on previous tests or other publicly available information.
They can also be used to present our analysis of areas or issues that have not yet been examined, or to compile facts on specific topics or problems.
In contrast to tests, they neither address evaluation questions nor provide reliability assurances.
17 Sustainable use of natural resources Analysis No. 01/2019: The EU's response to the "diesel scandal" In 2015, differences between the exhaust gas values achieved on the test bench and the road were detected in diesel engines.
Studies have shown that so-called "decommissioning devices" were used, which caused lower emissions in official tests than in normal driving.
The type-approval authorities of some Member States reacted to the emissions scandal by retesting diesel cars.
These tests showed that emissions from road transport significantly exceeded the permitted NOx limits for almost all light diesel commercial vehicles in emission classes Euro 5 and Euro 6, in some cases by more than 10 times.
We looked at the measures taken by both the EU and the Member States in response to the "diesel scandal".
We also included in our consideration the changes made to the exhaust emission measurement system after September 2015.
We noted that many legal amendments to the EU type-approval and emission testing system were adopted with speed.
The Commission is now empowered to review the work of the national type-approval authorities and may also have vehicles tested and type-approval revoked or suspended.
Third parties concerned can now also carry out emission tests.
The Commission also initiated infringement proceedings against certain Member States.
We also noted that in several Member States there has been an increase in willingness to restrict motor vehicle traffic in order to improve air quality, and that in several European cities low-emission zones have been created where car traffic is restricted or banned.
We presented our work results in the form of an analysis, as the changes made to the legislation will not have a measurable impact in the near future.
Our analyses do not contain recommendations.
18 Investment for cohesion, growth and integration Special Report No 08/2019: Wind and solar energy for electricity generation: to achieve the EU's objectives, significant efforts are needed Electricity can be generated either from non-renewable energy sources such as fossil fuels, non-recoverable waste and nuclear fuels in conventional reactors, or from renewable energy sources such as hydroelectric, wind and solar energy, biomass, etc.
Renewable energies also serve the production of heat and cooling as well as the extraction of fuels for the transport sector.
Currently, 79% of the total EU greenhouse gas emissions are due to the use of fossil fuels for energy production.
A higher share of renewable energy in electricity generation will contribute to the EU's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Member States shall determine how best to use their energy resources and how to structure their energy supply.
The EU can support Member States' actions by providing additional funding for investments in renewable energy projects.
We assessed the progress made by the EU and the Member States in relation to the targets set for the share of renewable energy in order to achieve the overall EU target of 20% by 2020 and 32% by 2030.
In Germany, Greece, Spain and Poland, we checked on site whether the promotion of electricity generation from wind energy and photovoltaics was effective.
We noted that significant progress had been made in terms of the share of renewable energy in the energy mix from 2005 onwards, but this trend slowed down after 2014.
The share of renewable energy in electricity generation in the EU has increased from around 15% (in 2015) to just under 31% (in 2017), doubling.
Wind and solar energy were the technologies that made the greatest contribution to this increase.
However, achieving the targets for around half of the Member States will be a major challenge.
We recommended that the Commission encourage Member States to support further development – by conducting auctions to allocate additional capacity in the field of renewable energy, by promoting greater participation of citizens, by simplifying administrative procedures and by eliminating the shortcomings of networks.
We also recommended that the Commission review the legal requirements for Member States in order to improve the timeliness of statistical data.
19 External policies, security and justice Special Report No 24/2019: Asylum, relocation and return of migrants: time for increased action to address the disparities between objectives and results In 2015, the European Union experienced an unprecedented influx of migrants, followed by an increase in asylum applications.
In recent years, immigration figures have fallen back to pre-crisis levels.
We conducted interviews with staff at the European Commission, the European Asylum Support Office (EASO) and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (commonly referred to as "Frontex").
Audit visits were carried out to national authorities, international organisations and non-governmental organisations carrying out EU-funded projects, and 20 EU support actions were carried out in Greece and Italy.
Both Member States are particularly affected by these migratory flows.
We assessed whether the objectives of EU-funded support were achieved and asylum and return procedures were implemented effectively and swiftly.
We also examined whether the targets and objectives of the temporary emergency relocation arrangements were met.
We found that the quotas had improved significantly in the hotspots when registering and fingerprinting.
Nevertheless, a large number of migrants continue to move to other EU Member States and apply for asylum without their fingerprints being stored in the Eurodac database.
In both Member States, the implementation of asylum procedures remains characterised by long processing times and bottlenecks.
A large proportion of applicants were actually relocated (80% in Greece and 89% in Italy).
Nevertheless, the relocation process in the countries receiving migrants has not been monitored by the Commission since February 2018.
As in the other EU countries, the return rates from Greece and Italy are low.
We recommended that the next Commission should take appropriate measures to improve the management of emergency aid.
The Commission should also use the past experience in the development of future voluntary relocation mechanisms.
Finally, EASO support for asylum procedures should be improved and Frontex support for return operations adjusted.
20 Market regulation and competitive economy Special Report No 10/2019: EU-wide stress tests for banks: more information about banks than ever before, but greater coordination and risk focus needed The EU-wide stress test aims to assess the potential impacts that a common shock to the financial situation and the viability of large European banks could have.
It is the task of the European Banking Authority (EBA) to initiate and coordinate the implementation of Union-wide banking stress tests in cooperation with the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB).
Stress tests have been conducted in the EU since 2011, with all bottom-up approaches, and the banks providing the results of the shock scenario based on the methodology approved by EBA.
We evaluated the implementation of the EU-wide banking stress test under the mandate given to EBA.
We found that at the beginning of the procedure, EBA did not specify the risks or severity it considered relevant for the stress test procedure.
The ESRB, which developed the stress scenario, again received a substantial input from the ECB and from national central banks and authorities.
As a result, EBA lacked control over the essential phases of the procedure.
In the United States, regulators rely on a top-down approach, giving them much greater control over the results achieved by banks.
Conversely, the role of EBA in the EU is limited to the introduction of stress tests, the provision of methodology and the extensive coordination of stress tests.
The EBA stress test assessed the vulnerability of the system and banks to a downturn rather than a severe financial shock affecting the system.
Although EBA pursued the objective of broad coverage, certain risk-related banks were excluded from the stress test.
The bottom-up approach of EBA has led to limited reliability and comparability of the results achieved by banks.
We recommended that EBA should strengthen its control over the stress test process and develop a top-down approach to complement the current bottom-up approach.
In order to fulfil its purpose of assessing resilience to adverse market developments, future stress tests should also take due account of the risks posed by the EU financial system, ensure a minimum level of stress and provide clear statements on the resilience of banks.
Finally, the choice of banks for the stress test should be based not only on size but also on risk.
21 Financing and administration of the Union Special Report No 14/2019: "Your opinion counts!"
While public consultations of the Commission involve citizens, there is a lack of public relations "better regulation" is about ensuring that policy decisions are prepared openly and transparently, based on the best facts available and supported by citizens and other stakeholders, such as civil society organisations and representative associations, which are fully involved.
The Commission is obliged to consult citizens and representative associations in all areas of Union action.
The Better Regulation Guidelines define stakeholder consultation, and also make citizens "interest-makers".
Consultations with stakeholders, particularly in the context of public consultations, will seek information and opinions from citizens and other stakeholders when the Commission prepares a policy initiative or evaluates ongoing interventions.
The Commission carries out on average more than 100 public consultations per year.
We assessed whether the Commission's public consultations have effectively contributed to reaching out to citizens and stakeholders and making use of their contributions.
We examined the way in which the Commission has prepared and carried out a selection of public consultations and how it has provided information on the consultation activities and used the consultation work.
We reviewed a sample of 26 Commission public consultations conducted by five Directorates-General from 2016 to 2018 and conducted an opinion poll to determine how satisfied the participants in public consultations were.
We noted that the Commission framework for public consultation has a high standard.
In addition, the Commission's overall public consultation sample had a positive picture and the participants' perception of it was generally satisfactory.
Inadequacies were identified in public relations and feedback, for example, not always the entire range of communication channels was used, there were no clear criteria to justify why a questionnaire was not available in all EU official languages, and some questionnaires were long and complex.
We recommended that public advertising for the consultations should be more widely and more targeted in order to improve visibility and allow more people to participate.
We also encouraged the Commission to report better on the follow-up to the public consultation.
Finally, there is potential for improvement in the participation of citizens in the process of launching legislative proposals under the European Citizens' Initiative.
Audit previews Audit previews provide information on ongoing audit tasks (in the field of economic audit).
They are based on the preparatory work carried out before an audit is started and are intended to serve as a source of information for all those interested in certain policies and/or programmes subject to an ongoing audit.
In 2019 we published 18 previews (2018: 12).
Annual reports and special annual reports The annual reports essentially contain the results of our Statement of Assurance on the European Union budget and the European Development Funds (EDF).
The special annual reports contain the results of our annual audit of the accounts of the EU agencies, decentralised bodies and Joint Undertakings and the European Schools.
We also publish a report on contingent liabilities resulting from the Single Resolution Committee (SRB) performing its tasks. 22
Annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2018 Every year, we review the revenue and expenditure of the EU to examine whether the annual accounts are reliable and whether the revenue and expenditure operations underlying them are in line with the relevant EU and Member State legislation.
We also provide specific assessments of all key areas of the EU budget, based on the (partial) headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) for the period 2014-2020.
Furthermore, we analyse why and where errors have occurred, make recommendations for improvements and examine whether and to what extent our previous recommendations have been put into practice.
Finally, we provide information on budgetary and financial management and performance-related information.
This extensive work forms the basis for our Statement of Assurance, which we must submit to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with our mandate set out in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
EU general budget: full audit opinion on the reliability of accounts and revenue; limited audit opinion on expenditure In 2018, EU expenditure amounted to EUR 156.7 billion, representing 2.2% of total expenditure by the State of the EU Member States and 1% of the Union's gross national income.
Our auditors examined a sample of 728 payments made to beneficiaries in all areas of the EU budget from a population of around 120 billion euros to be audited.
This means that we have assessed various cases where EU funds were used to support key infrastructure projects, SMEs, research institutions, farmers and students in EU Member States or to support beneficiaries in non-EU countries.
For the financial year 2018, we gave an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts and the revenue of the EU.
In addition, we were able to present a limited assessment of EU expenditure for the third year in a row. 23
Around half of the expenditure audited does not show a significant error rate As we have seen in previous years, the errors in EU expenditure were not comprehensive and, except for high risk expenditure (mainly complex expenditures subject to reimbursement) payments were lawful and proper.
24 Overall, the Commission and the Member States were able to maintain the progress recorded in the two previous years with an error rate of 2.6% (2017 budget year: 2.4%; 2016 financial year: 3.1%).
We see this as an encouraging sign.
Mistakes – what does that mean?
An error or irregular payment is the amount of the funds that should not have been paid from the EU budget because they were not used in accordance with EU or national rules and therefore do not meet the objectives pursued by the Council and Parliament in accordance with the relevant EU legislation or run counter to specific national rules in the Member States.
We estimate the error rate using statistical methods, based on quantifiable (i.e. monetaryly measurable) errors that we have identified by examining a sample of operations within the whole audited population of expenditure.
The most error-prone MFF heading: Economic, social and territorial cohesion In the financial year 2018, the area of economic, social and territorial cohesion was the most error-prone MFF (partial) heading, followed by "Natural resources" and "Competitiveness for growth and employment". 25
Annual report on the EDF: full audit opinion on the reliability of accounts and revenue; limited audit opinion on expenditure 26 The European Development Funds (EDF) are the main EU aid instruments in the context of development cooperation.
The EDFs aim to overcome poverty and promote sustainable development and the integration of the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and overseas countries and territories into the world economy.
The EDFs are financed by the Member States of the Union and managed outside the EU budget by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank (EIB).
As in previous years, we gave an unqualified audit opinion for the financial year 2018 on the reliability of the EDF accounts and on revenue and a limited audit opinion on EDF expenditure.
Special annual reports on EU agencies and Joint Undertakings EU agencies are separate entities with their own legal personality established to perform specific technical and scientific tasks and administrative tasks, thus helping to shape and implement the policies of the EU institutions.
There are 43 agencies in total.
Joint Undertakings are EU public-private partnerships with industry, research groups and Member States, which play an important role in implementing certain aspects of EU research policy.
The European Commission is the member of the Joint Undertaking and represents the EU.
There are eight Joint Undertakings in total.
27 Note: The United Kingdom left the European Union on 31 January 2020.
Full audit opinion for all agencies except one; full audit opinion for all Joint Undertakings Total appropriations for all agencies (excluding the SRB) in 2018 amounted to 4.2 billion euros, 20 % more than in 2017 (3.5 billion), representing approximately 2.9% of the EU general budget for 2018 (2017: 2.7%).
Overall, our audit of the accounts of the agencies for the financial year 2018 confirmed the positive results shown in previous years.
We gave full audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts, revenue and underlying payments to the agencies' annual accounts, except for EASO, which has been given a limited audit opinion on payments.
We also gave all the Joint Undertakings full audit opinions on the reliability of the accounts, revenue and expenditure.
Parliament's discharge procedure is launched The publication of our annual reports is at the beginning of the discharge procedure, during which the European Parliament – on the recommendation of the Council – decides whether the Commission and other bodies have managed the EU budget satisfactorily.
In October 2019, we presented our annual reports on the EU general budget and the EDF to the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control and subsequently also to the plenary of the European Parliament, the Council (Economy and Finance), as well as to the parliaments and national authorities of 21 Member States.
28 Other annual reports: on contingent liabilities and European schools We are obliged to report annually on all contingent liabilities incurred by the Single Resolution Committee, the Council and the Commission in connection with the performance of their banking resolution tasks.
In our 2018 report, we concluded that the Committee has improved its presentation of its accounts, but that better reporting on contingent liabilities at national level is needed.
We also publish an annual report on the annual accounts of the European Schools.
Our audit of the 2018 annual accounts revealed a significant error rate for one of the 13 European schools.
On the road to digital auditing Digitalisation is about exploiting the potential of technologies to provide more and better information for the accountability process.
Digital change is also of great importance for our audit work and our organisation.
We have set up a five-member Digitalisation Steering Committee to manage this transition process in the coming years.
As the first important initiative in the audit area, we launched a pilot experiment in 2019 to automate the audit of the accounting of executive agencies.
In this pilot experiment, we will simultaneously use traditional and digital instruments. 29
Opinions Opinions: a contribution to better regulation One way to strengthen the Commission's approach to better regulation is to publish opinions on Commission proposals for new or amended legislation.
If these are legislative proposals with significant financial implications, the Court's opinions are required under EU law.
Other institutions may also ask us to deliver opinions on specific issues.
Our opinions will be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council.
In 2019 we published three opinions: on the proposal concerning the European Union Intellectual Property Office, on a proposal for the financial regulation of the Single Resolution Committee (SRB) and on the proposal for the financial regulation of the Community Plant Variety Office.
Our comments on the new MFF in early 2019 were also published in our summary of the EAFRH's comments on the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) 2021-2027.
This summary focused on the proposed procedure for setting EU spending priorities, the flexibility of the EU budget, the performance orientation and simplification of administration, and accountability and audit arrangements.
The main basis for this analysis was a number of comments we made during 2018 on the Commission proposals, as well as our recent thematic papers and other reports on EU finances.
Balanced number of publications over the year We have reached a relatively balanced number of publications throughout the year, culminating in October when we published our annual reports.
31 32 Fighting fraud against the EU's financial interests Administrative agreement signed by OLAF The European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) is at the forefront of combating fraud to the detriment of the EU's financial interests.
We have adopted detailed guidelines for our auditors on the management of fraud risk.
We shall forward to OLAF any suspicion of fraud or other illegal activities to the EU's financial interests, which arise from our audit work or is reported to us.
OLAF will then deal with these cases, which will decide on possible investigations and, if necessary, cooperate with Member States' authorities.
In 2019, we also signed an administrative agreement setting out the operational provisions for our cooperation with OLAF, including the coordination of training, workshops and staff exchanges.
10 cases of suspected fraud have been forwarded to OLAF We are the external auditor of the EU.
Our tests are not specifically designed to detect fraud.
Nevertheless, our auditors regularly identify a number of cases in which they suspect fraudulent activities.
In 2019, we sent OLAF 10 cases of suspected fraud (2018: nine cases), eight of which we encountered during our audits, and two cases that arose from third party references.
Additional information on the nature of these suspected frauds and the resulting recovery as recommended by OLAF is provided in our annual report on the EU general budget.
In 2019, we also published two special reports closely related to the fight against fraud in EU expenditure: Special Report No. 01/2019 "Combating fraud in EU expenditure: action must be taken" and Special Report No. 06/2019 "Combating fraud in EU cohesion expenditure: administrative authorities must increase detection, response and coordination".
33 Finally, we dedicated a special issue of the ECA Journal to combating fraud and corruption and protecting the EU's financial interests.
Focus on sustainability The UN Sustainable Development Goals at the heart of our audit work In recent years, in which we focused on environmental and climate issues, issues of sustainability were audit topics of outstanding importance.
In 2019, our work in the area of sustainability was complemented by the analysis of sustainability reporting.
This analysis provided an overview of how the EU institutions publish sustainability information and how they contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
We also organised a conference – the ECA Forum on Sustainability Reporting – to raise awareness of the issue and bring together key stakeholders.
In July, we attended a meeting of SAIs presidents and stakeholders on the topic "ORCs move something: Review of the implementation of the SDGs" at the UN High Level Political Forum for the 2030 Agenda.
Finally, we published a special issue of the ECA Journal on the SDGs.
Audit team: analysis "Sustainability reporting: an inventory of EU institutions, bodies and agencies".
Institutional relations Continuous increase in presentations to the European Parliament, the Council and the national parliaments We are working closely with the European Parliament (EP), the Council and the national parliaments in the Member States, as the impact of our work depends to a large extent on the benefits of our audit results and recommendations.
Our audit reports are presented to the relevant committees of the European Parliament and to the Council working groups.
We also present our annual reports, but also our special reports and analyses to the national parliaments.
In 2019, the presentations of our reports for these institutional addressees continued to increase, mainly due to a significant increase in presentations to national parliaments.
At the same time, fewer presentations were held in the EP from mid-April to September 2019 due to the parliamentary break. 34
Meeting with the newly elected Presidents of the EU institutions 2019 was a year of change at the head of many EU institutions: after their election, our President met with the President of the European Parliament, the President of the European Commission and the President of the European Council.
35 President of the European Union Lehne with EP President David Sassoli, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and President of the Council Charles Michel.
European Parliament Our members and audit teams are regularly invited by the committees and bodies of the European Parliament – and in particular by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
In 2019, the elections to the European Parliament in May 2019 brought special conditions to a certain extent, as the parliamentary committees held their seats in mid-April and then resumed in September.
We presented 14 committees 31 special reports and 10 analyses (2018: 39 reports and 14 committees).
Following the elections, we launched an awareness campaign to inform Members of the European Parliament about our activities as external auditors of the EU.
We also organised a series of workshops for the staff of the EP.
Finally, in October 2019, we established a publication portal that will allow more user-friendly access to our reports not only to members of the EP but also to the general public. 36
Council of the European Union In 2019, our audit teams presented 22 Council working groups and two committees with 26 special reports (2018: 40 reports and 27 working groups).
We also presented two analyses: one to the Committee on Budgets during an informal Council meeting in Romania and another to the working group on the 2030 Agenda.
We also participated in an exchange of views with the Committee on Financial Services on the agreement with the European Central Bank and the Committee on Budgets on our draft budget for 2020 and presented our 2020 work programme in December 2019.
In October 2019, the President of the Euro Group visited us to discuss the current state of play and future reforms of the Economic and Monetary Union and our potential contribution to the EU's financial and economic governance.
In addition, the president of the Euro Group working group met with our members in May 2019.
Member State governments and national parliaments More appearances in national parliaments Our members regularly visit national parliaments and governments.
In 2019, we held 90 presentations in 21 Member States (2018: 50 presentations in 14 Member States).
This is the highest number so far. 37
European Commission Exchange of views with our audited high-level bodies For years, it has been common practice for our members to hold an annual meeting with their counterparts at the Commission.
These meetings provide an opportunity to take stock and to reflect on how our cooperation can be further improved.
European Central Bank In June 2019, this tradition continued when President Jean-Claude Juncker invited our members to an exchange of views with the College of Commissioners in Brussels.
In October 2019, we signed an agreement with the European Central Bank setting out the practical arrangements for exchanging information on the supervisory activities of the European Central Bank for our auditors.
Cooperation with Supreme Audit Institutions (ORKB) Contact Committee of the EU-ORKB Annual Meeting 2019 in Poland Our cooperation with the EU-ORKB takes place primarily within the framework of the Contact Committee of the Presidents of the EU-ORKB.
This network of EU ORCs allows us to promote the activities of independent external financial control in the EU and its Member States.
In June 2019, we attended the annual meeting hosted by the SAIs of Poland, which also held the Presidency.
The discussions focused primarily on the challenges and opportunities that the Digital Europe brings to the EU ORCs.
At this meeting we took over the chair of the Contact Committee, as we do every three years.
Contact Committee meeting, Warsaw, June 2019. 39
Online portal "Public financial control in the EU" In January 2019 we launched an online portal for financial control in the European Union.
This online portal provides information on the mandate, status, organisational structure, activity and output of the EU and its Member States' Supreme Audit Authorities.
Public Health Examination Board in the EU In December 2019, we published a second public health examination board on behalf of the Contact Committee, which provides information on the examinations carried out throughout the European Union in the field of public health.
The Compendium provides background information on public health, its legal bases, its main objectives and related competences at Member State and EU level, and highlights the main challenges facing the EU and its Member States in this regard.
It is based on current audit findings of the European Court of Auditors and the SAIs from 23 EU Member States.
In 2019, we started the preparatory work for a third examination compendium to be published in 2020 and will address the issue of cybersecurity. 40
INTOSAI In 2019, the ECA continued its active participation in the activities of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI), in particular in its function as Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Technical Standards (since December 2016) and as a member of the Subcommittee for Auditing Accounting and Accounting, the Subcommittee for Auditing Compliance with Legal Standards and the Subcommittee for Economic Audits.
We also participated in the activities and projects of other INTOSAI working bodies, mainly in the areas of environmental assessment, big data, financial modernisation and regulatory reform, and evaluation of public policies and programmes.
We also participated in the INTOSAI Task Force on the Professionalisation of Auditors, the INTOSAI Development Initiative (IDI) and the ISSAI 200 revision project under the auspices of the Subcommittee on Auditing Accounting and Accounting.
INTOSAI Congress (INCOSAI) in September 2019 in Moscow.
The conference discussed two main topics in detail: information technology for the development of public administration and the SAIs' contribution to national priorities and objectives.
EUROSAI We also took an active part in the activities of the European Organisation of Supreme Audit Institutions (EUROSAI), the European Regional Group of INTOSAI, in particular in its working groups on environmental assessment, IT audit and the assessment of disaster relief, as well as in its task force on audit and ethics.
We also participated in several workshops and seminars and contributed to the publication of a joint report on air quality together with 14 other European SAIs. In October 2019 we hosted the seventeenth annual meeting of the EUROSAI Environmental Assessment Working Group and a joint conference on biodiversity. Finally, we attended the third joint conference of EUROSAI-ASOSAI on "New emerging issues and emergency situations" in Israel in March 2019 as well as the first joint seminar of EUROSAI-AFROSAI in Lisbon in November 2019, hosted by the Portuguese SAIs.
41 Annual meeting of the EUROSAI Environmental Assessment Working Group, October 2019.
42 The SAIs of the EU candidate countries and potential EU candidate countries We also support the SAIs of the candidate countries and potential candidate countries (Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo*, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, Serbia and Turkey), primarily through a network comparable to the Contact Committee and through our support for activities coordinated by the OECD.
In 2019, 10 auditors from SAIs of the network participated in our internship program.
We also actively contributed to the network's meetings and activities, including addressing issues such as accounting policies with increased impact and digital auditing.
Peer reviews of other EU ORKBs Peer reviews are an external independent review of one or more elements of the organisation and/or functioning of an SAI by a team of peers from one or more SAIs.
It does not constitute an examination, but an assessment and advice by peers, which is carried out on a voluntary basis.
In 2019, a peer review team led by our Secretary General, together with the SAIs of Poland and the United Kingdom, conducted a peer review of the SAIs of Lithuania.
The main objective was to assess whether the Lithuanian SAIs' audit practice was in line with international audit standards.
In December 2019, the final report was submitted to the Lithuanian Parliament (Seimas). * This designation does not affect the positions on status and is in accordance with UN Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999) and the opinion of the International Court of Justice on Kosovo's declaration of independence.
Our Management The Members The ECA acts as a collegial body of members with one member per Member State.
Each Member shall be appointed by the Council after his or her appointment by his or her respective national government after consulting the European Parliament.
We are not allowed to play a role in the appointment and appointment of members.
They will take up their duties in this regard before the Court of Justice of the European Union.
43 meeting of the College of the Members of the ECA in Luxembourg on 18 July 2019.
In 2019, the Council appointed four new members: Viorel ̄tefan (Romania) from 1 July 2019 and Ivana Maletić (Croatia) from 15 July 2019, and Joëlle Elvinger (Luxembourg) and François-Roger Cazala (France) from 1 January 2020.
In addition, three members of the Council were appointed by the Council: Alex Brenninkmeijer (Netherlands), Nikolaos Milionis (Greece) and Klaus-Heiner Lehne (Germany).
Phil Wynn Owen (UK) was a member until 31 January 2020.
As of March 2020, a Polish member has to be appointed and appointed following the appointment of Janusz Wojciechowski as Member of the European Commission in December 2019.
In 2019, the College of the Members of the European Court of Justice met 21 times (2018: 18 times).
President The President's remit is to address the institution's strategy, planning and performance management, communication and media work, relations with other institutions, legal issues and internal audit.
The President also represents the Court in all its external relations.
Members shall elect the President from among their members for a term of three years, with the possibility of re-election.
In September 2016, Klaus-Heiner Lehne was elected President; his re-election took place in September 2019.
The President and Members 44 Note: as at March 2020.
Examination chambers and committees Members are assigned to one of our five examination chambers.In the chambers, most of our examination reports, analyses and opinions are prepared and accepted.
The Chambers shall be headed by a Doyen or a Doyenne elected by the members of the Chamber from among themselves.
As of December 2019, the five examination chambers were headed by the following Doyens/Doyennes: Nikolaos Milionis, Iliana Ivanova, Bettina Jakobsen, Alex Brenninkmeijer and Lazaros S. Lazarou.
Danièle Lamarque was the quality control member in the audit area (until the end of her term in December 2019).
She was chair of the Quality Control Committee in the audit area.
The boards shall divide their functions among the members.
Each member shall be accountable to the Chamber and the Court for his or her own examination tasks.
Members are supported by a cabinet.
In addition to their role in the audit chambers, some members also took on other tasks: Oscar Herics had been head of the Ethics Committee, Samo Jereb the Audit Committee, Eva Lindström the Steering Committee for Digitalization and João Figueiredo the Advisory Committee for Strategy and Perspectives.
Rimantas Šadžius was the member responsible for institutional relations.
Decisions on more far-reaching strategic and administrative issues shall be taken by the Management Committee and, where appropriate, by the College of Members, each chaired by the President. 45
46 Our upper management level consists of the Secretary General and the Directors.
There are 10 Directorates: five of them are assigned to the Examination Chambers, one to the Audit Committee for Quality Control, another to the President and three to the Secretary-General.
Our upper management level Note: As of March 2020.
Performance Measurement We use Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to inform our management of the progress made in terms of our strategic goals, support the decision-making process and provide our institutional addressees with information about our performance.
These KPIs provide a comprehensive overview of how we work as an organisation in terms of dissemination, impact and perception.
In 2019 as planned 36 reports published We monitor the number and timing of reports published throughout the year.
In 2019 we published 36 reports: 25 special reports and 11 analyses.
This is the number of publications planned in the work programme.
Number of special reports and analyses published 47 In addition, we issued six annual reports, three opinions, 18 audit reports and four other publications.
In total, 67 publications were produced during the year. 48
Media Presence Continuous increase in social media coverage We follow media coverage of our work and our institution, which can vary considerably depending on the topic and complexity of a report.
At the same time, external factors can strongly influence the media's interest in our publications.
This may be the case, for example, if the date of publication of a report coincides with an important event or political development, which may significantly increase the public interest in the subject in question.
In total, more than 50,000 free online articles and contributions were recorded on social media in 2019.
49 For 2019, we noted a significant increase in our social media contributions, which is also due to the more active use of these communication channels during the year.
Enhanced contacts with the press In 2019, we intensified our contacts with the press and the media.
We succeeded in doing this by publishing o 61 press releases in 23 EU languages (2018: 76) and numerous short messages and hints for the media in certain languages; o 25 press briefings (2018: 20), including sector and country-related press briefings in connection with the annual report.
These press briefings are usually held in Brussels.
We also received journalists working in Brussels and the Member States for visits to the field and organised several briefings on selected reports for industry stakeholders, NGOs and think tanks.
Visit of journalists from Member States in Luxembourg in November 2019. 50
One million visitors to our website in 2019 exceeded the number of visits to our website for the first time.
In total, we registered around 511,000 individual visitors.
More Followers in Social Media Throughout the year, we have seen an increase in our presence and engagement in social media, especially on Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn, which are now an essential part of our communication activities and enable us to engage in direct exchanges with citizens.
At the end of 2019, our three social media accounts recorded around 29,500 followers (2018: around 22,500). 51
Impact and performance of our work 88% of the stakeholders surveyed consider our audit reports useful We evaluate the likely impact and usefulness of our audit work on the basis of feedback from our stakeholders from the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, EU agencies, Member States' permanent representations, Member State public authorities and SAIs, NGOs, science, the media and other parties.
Since 2018, we have been requesting feedback from our stakeholders via anonymous electronic surveys on a selection of special reports and analyses as well as on the annual report.
These surveys will also enable stakeholders to give feedback on the quality of the reports and to make general proposals on the Court's work.
In total, 88% of respondents confirmed the usefulness of our reports for their work in 2019 and 81% agreed to their impact.
52 Follow-up to our recommendations Almost all our recommendations implemented We determine the state of implementation of our recommendations on the basis of the follow-up carried out by our auditors.
For 2019, we analysed the recommendations we had made in our 2015 special reports and the annual report of the same year.
This analysis shows that 96% of the recommendations we made in our 2015 Annual Report and 94% of the recommendations in our 2015 Special Reports have been fully, largely or (at least) partially implemented. 53
Our staff staff staff assignment At the end of 2019, our institution had 853 permanent and scheduled posts (2018: 853 posts), of which 534 in the examination chambers, including 118 posts in the members' cabinets.
54 In addition, 75 contract staff and 16 seconded national experts were employed by the Court at the end of the year (2018: 76 and 15 respectively).
Recruitment Our recruitment policy follows the general principles and conditions of employment of the EU institutions. Our employees have a broad academic and professional background.
In 2019, the Court hired 77 staff (2018: 79 staff): 17 officials, 33 temporary staff, 21 contract staff and six seconded national experts.
We also provided 55 internship places (2018: 60) for university graduates for periods of three to five months.
Age profile Almost three quarters (74%) of active staff at the end of 2019 are between 40 and 59 years old.
55 More than half of our directors and executive managers are 50 years old or older.
As a result, in the next five to ten years, when these employees retire, they will be re-established in management positions.
Equal opportunities The Court offers its employees equal opportunities at all levels of the organisation.
Overall, we have a balanced female and male share among our employees.
In 2019, about one third of our directors and executive managers are women.
57 Support for audit activities Professional training record number of training activities In 2019, we continued to diversify and expand our staff's training offerings.
We organized a record number of training courses, conferences, presentations and workshops on a variety of topics.
We also provided financial support to employees for their participation in externally organised courses and programmes for the acquisition or maintenance of professional qualifications and qualifications.
We also launched a program for developing leadership skills, which consists of courses, coaching and mentoring for employees who want to expand their leadership skills.
We supported the HR operations by training newly created pools of career consultants, mentors and internal intermediaries.
Over-repeated training days We exceeded the requirement for professional training days (5 days of non-language-related training per year), which was set in accordance with the recommendations of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).
Our auditors completed an average of 7.5 training days; our non-audit staff accounted for an average of 3.6 training days.
Cooperation in the field of further education In July 2019, the second Summer Academy for Public Financial Control and Accountability took place at the University of Pisa on the topic of "Digitalisation of Examination".
We also continued our cooperation with the University of Lorraine, in which we offered the fifth edition of the postgraduate course "Audit of public organisations and policies", which culminates in the Master's degree "Management of public organisations".
In addition, we launched a new postgraduate program on the topic "Fundamentals of statistics applied to audit".
These programmes are now open to European Commission staff.
Finally, we intensified our cooperation with the International Audit Committee of NATO (IBAN) in the field of training.
In May 2019, the Court held a workshop on "Assessing the Union's Security and Defence Policy", which brought together auditors from the Commission, NATO, the European Defence Agency, the Joint Organisation for Arms Cooperation (OCCAR), the Athena Mechanism and several EU Supreme Audit Institutions.
Launch of ECademy We have also launched ECademy, an instrument that enables us to exchange course material, publish records of conferences and organize webinars with all those interested in public financial control in the EU and its Member States.
This e-learning platform is open to the general public free of charge at https://ecademy.eca.europa.eu.
58 Sabine Chaupain-Guillot, Vice-Chairman of the Training Committee of the University of Lorraine, Lazaros S. Lazarou, EurH Member (February 2019).
Translation In 2019 we translated and revised more than 223,000 pages including external contracts (2018: 251 000).
We translate our publications into all official EU languages.
We also translate our correspondence with the authorities of the Member States into their national language, as is legally required.
Our translators are also often involved in our audit activities by providing linguistic support during audit visits and in the preparation of reports.
Information technology, working environment and innovation Transition to cloud-based services A major milestone is the transition to cloud-based services, which has generally been made available for various applications from end users (IT, personnel, office equipment, security, etc.) an easy-to-use system.
A new action plan on IT security has achieved many of its goals, such as more effective and regular removal of software vulnerabilities, preventing unauthorized access to cloud services, reviewing information security management and improving our security monitoring capabilities.
Finally, an ambitious technical programme was implemented in 2019 to provide equipment and systems that allow all employees to work more flexibly, such as home office, teleconferencing and mobile work.
New open access policy In 2019, we also adopted a new open access policy.
The re-use of documents and the process of providing our data are defined in cooperation with the Publications Office. 59
ECALab The ECALab, our interdisciplinary innovation laboratory team, has continued to research technologies such as text mining, artificial intelligence and process mining.
In 2019, ECALab also started supporting a number of audit tasks.
Technology and Innovation Network in the Auditing Sector In November 2019, we also established the EU-ORKB Technology and Innovation for Audit (TINA) network at the Big and open data conference held in our premises in Luxembourg.
Conference on "Big and open data", November 2019, Luxembourg.
In order to accompany the development of the European Blockchain Services infrastructure by the European Commission and the Member States on the basis of our "conceptual proof", a further network of EU-ORKBs on blockchain technology in the audit area has been established. 60
Building The yard currently has three buildings ("K1, "K2" and "K3") which form a single integrated technical unit.
K1 The K1 building, which was opened in 1988, has offices for up to 310 employees and meeting rooms.
The basements have parking spaces, technical facilities, storage rooms, the library and the main archive, while the entire top floor is used for technical installations.
The K1 building was modernised in 2008 to bring it into line with national health, safety and environmental requirements.
As far as possible, the technology in the K1 building was adapted to make compatibility with the buildings K2 and K3.
The basements have parking, technical facilities, storage rooms and the fitness centre.
The remaining floors are used for offices for up to 241 employees, and there are meeting rooms, a conference room with interpreting booths, video conference rooms, a cafeteria and simple kitchen areas.
We are currently modernising the K2 building to optimise the organization of its work areas and to update certain technical facilities.
A detailed study of this project was carried out in 2019 and work began at the end of the year.
As approved by the European Parliament and the Council in March 2014, the Court will use the remaining budget of the K3 construction project, which was completed a few years ago, to finance this modernisation. 61
The basements are equipped with parking, technical equipment, storage rooms, unloading areas, waste storage facilities, printing works, kitchens and archives.
In addition, there are offices for 503 employees, meeting rooms and an IT room in this building.
Based on the world's leading method of assessing and certifying the sustainability of buildings (BREAM), the K3 building was rated "very good". 62
Further increase of our security measures In 2019, we took a number of measures to increase safety in our buildings in Luxembourg.
This included the establishment of a team of armed security personnel.
An agreement was reached with the Luxembourg police to allow us to use their national training centres.
We also agreed with the European External Action Service to support our auditors in their visits to countries with high risk.
63 Eduardo Ruiz García, Secretary General of the ECA, and Helga Schmid, Secretary General of the EEAS.
Environmental management As an EU institution, it is our duty to follow the principle of sound environmental management in all activities.
We strive to continue to systematically reduce our CO2 emissions and regularly analyse the greenhouse gas emissions caused by our activities.
Our greenhouse gas emissions in 2018 amounted to a total of 10 178 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e), which represents a 3% reduction compared to 2017.
We are proud of our EMAS certification for environmental management and audit: We successfully operate an EMAS compliant environmental management system and fully meet the certification requirements of ISO 14001:2015.
In the last quarter of 2019, an external EMAS audit was carried out, which resulted in our EMAS certification being renewed for the period 2020-2022.
New initiatives such as the "plastic-free ECA" initiative are progressing as planned.
In 2019, we also set up four hives in our gardens in cooperation with the Luxembourg Ministry of Agriculture.
The bees are cared for by volunteers.
We assume that this will have a positive impact on the sustainability of pollinators in our environment. 64
Court's accountability Financial information The Court is financed by the general budget of the European Union, with its budget falling under the heading of administrative expenditure.
For 2019, our budget amounted to around 147 million euros, of which 98 % were used throughout the year.
This represents less than 0.1% of total EU expenditure and around 1.5% of total EU administrative expenditure.
Implementation of the budget 2019 65 10 – Members of the institution 11 324 20 – Building 3 526 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 8 085 3 523 Use of appropriations as % BUDGET YEAR 2019 Final appropriations Title 1: Members and commitments 97 % 99% Payments Staff of the institution (thousand euro) 11 004 10 963 12 – Officials and temporary staff 107 367 14 – Other staff and external services 6 683 106 434 99% 106 434 162 – Missions 3 200 6 407 2 700 96% 84 % 6 272 2 457 161 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for members 3 089 and the staff of the institution Subtotal Title 1 131 663 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 3 008 129 553 97 % 98 % 2 201 128 327 1 965 212 + 214 + 216 – Furniture and ancillary costs 976 8 085 100 % 5 138 23 – Current expenditure on the operation of the service 324 880 90 % 769 25 – Meetings and conferences 620 339 890 490 142 Substance 2727
Budget 2020 The budget estimates for 2020 show an increase of 4.3% compared to 2019.
BUDGET 2020 2019 Title 1: Members and staff of the institution (thousand euro) 10 – Members of the institution 11 751 12 – Officials and temporary staff 111 860 14 – Other staff and external services 7 403 162 – Missions 3 370 161 + 163 + 165 – Other expenditure for members and staff of the institution 11 474 66 107 666 6 381 3 450 Subtotal Title 1 Title 2: Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure 2 945 137 329 3 098 132 069 20 – Building 3 255 2 984 210 – Data processing and telecommunications 7 7 718 7 605 212 + 214 + 216 – Mobile and ancillary costs 963 998 23 – Current operating expenditure 563 25 – Meetings and conferences 696 27 – Information and publications 2 613 Subtotal Title 2 15 808 European Court of Auditors total 153 137 548 700 1 986 14 821 146 890
Internal and external audit Internal audit The Internal Audit Service advises the Court on risk management issues.
It provides independent and objective guarantees and provides advisory services designed to increase and improve the value of the Court's activities.
In addition, this department shall report to the Internal Audit Committee, composed of three members of the Court and one external expert.
The Committee shall monitor regularly progress on the various tasks set out in the annual work programme of the Internal Audit Service and ensure the independence of the Office.
During 2019, the Internal Audit Service carried out three selected tasks: "Risks and challenges of the Audit Committee", "Travel expenses of members and senior officials, expenses for representation of members and use of the Court's fleet of vehicles" and "occupational training activities of the Court".
Our risk management strategy and three annual declarations by authorising officers by subdelegation were also examined.
In addition, the Internal Audit Service monitored the implementation of its previous recommendations by ensuring that the agreed action plans were implemented and consulted on issues related to the new internal control framework of the Court.
Our internal auditor did not identify any deficiencies that, due to their nature or extent, would seriously call into question the reliability of the internal control systems as a whole; these control systems had been introduced by the authorising officer by delegation to ensure the legality and regularity of the Court's financial operations in 2019.
External audit Our annual accounts are audited by an independent external auditor.
We attach great importance to this audit, as it shows that we apply the same transparency and accountability principles as we have applied to the bodies we examine.
The auditor's report – PricewaterhouseCoopers S.à.r.l. – on the Court's annual accounts for the financial year 2018 was published on 4 April 2019. 67
Audit opinions of our independent auditor – Financial year 2018 68 On the Court's annual accounts: "In our assessment, the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the European Court of Auditors' financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2018 and of the results of its operations, cash flows and changes in net assets for the year ending that reference date, in accordance with Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2012, p.
The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 concerning the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the rules for the application of the rules on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1).
1) laying down the rules for the application of the Financial Regulation and its subsequent amendments.';
As regards resource use and the Court's control procedures, "Our work described in this report did not come across facts that we would have to conclude that, in all essential respects and taking into account the above criteria, the resources allocated to the Court were not used for the purposes envisaged and that the control procedures established did not provide the necessary assurance that the financial operations were carried out in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations."
Discharge for the financial year 2017 Like the other EU institutions, the Court is also subject to the discharge procedure.
In March 2019, the European Parliament granted our Secretary-General discharge in respect of the implementation of our budget for the financial year 2017.
As in every year, we have carefully analysed all the problems raised during the discharge procedure with regard to our audit and management responsibility, taken appropriate measures and reported to the European Parliament in detail on our follow-up.
Peer Review of our Ethics Framework Finally, in 2019 our ethics framework was subjected to an external expert review by the SAIs of Poland and Croatia.
The report was completed in January 2020. 69
Declaration by the authorising officer by delegation In accordance with Article 74(9) of the Financial Regulation Statement by the authorising officer by delegation The undersigned, Secretary-General of the European Court of Auditors, hereby declares in his capacity as authorising officer by delegation, or that the information contained in this report, as well as the additional internal information provided to fulfil my duties, which contain financial and management information, including the results of the controls, is accurate and accurate, and or confirms with reasonable certainty that, the resources provided for the activities described in this report have been used for the purposes envisaged and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management, the control procedures established are proportionate to the necessary assurance of the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and to ensure the proper management of fraud or suspicion of fraud, the costs and benefits of the controls are proportionate.
Done at Luxembourg, 26 March 2020 Eduardo Ruiz García Secretary-General 70
The following photos are allowed to be reused, with the copyright holder, the source and, if indicated, the name of the photographers or architects: p. 2, © European Union, 2020, source: EurH.
OJ C 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1.
15, first row, right, © European Union, 2010 / Carlos Juan.
15, second row, middle, © European Union, 2013, source: EP / Bauweraerts Didier.
17 © European Union, 2013, source: EP / Jennifer Jacquemart.
19 © European Union, 2015 / Angelos Tzortzinis.
21 © European Union, 2016, source: EP / Fred Marvaux.
26; left, © European Union, 2019 / Anouk Delafortrie.
26 - right, © European Union, 2019, Lisa Hastert.
28 © European Union, 2019, Source: EP / Benoit Bourgeois.
35, left, © European Union, 2019, Source: EP (20191022_EP-093734A_DLL_007).
© European Union, 2019, source, European Commission.
35, right, © European Union, 2019, source, European Council.
38, above, © European Union, 2019, Source, European Commission, Audiovisual Service / Etienne Ansotte.
62, © European Union, 2019, Source: ECA.
Architects of the buildings: Paul Noël (1988) and Jim Clemes (2004 and 2013).
If you want to use or play content where the EU has no copyrights, you must obtain permission directly from copyright holders: pp. 7 and 8: Image symbols of Pixel perfect on the platform https://flaticon.com.
12, from left to right: © contains modified Copernicus Sentinel data (2018) processed by GeoVille; © Shutterstock / Andrey_Popov; © Shutterstock / G-Stock Studio.
13; from left to right: © Shutterstock / Antonio Guillem; © Shutterstock / Gorodenkoff; © Shutterstock / igorstevanovic.
15, first row, left, © Shutterstock / Billion Photos; p. 15, first row, middle, © Shutterstock / Gorodenkoff.
15, second row, left, © Shutterstock / LMWH; p. 15, second row, right, © Shutterstock / Photolines.
15, last row, left to right: © Shutterstock / Syda Productions; © Shutterstock / Jenson; © Courtesy of EUROCONTROL.
18, © Shutterstock / Bannafarsai_Stock.
20, © Shutterstock / pisaphotography.
S. 26, Mitte, © MCI Benelux, 2019.
39, © NIK (Najwyższa Izba Kontroli), Warsaw, 2019.
Contact the EU Visit The European Union has hundreds of Europe Direct Information Offices.
You can find an information office nearby by using this link: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en Telephone or e-mail The Europe Direct service will answer your questions about the European Union.
Contact Europe Direct — via the freephone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (but some telephone service providers charge fees), — via the freephone number: 00 800 6 7 8 9 10 11 (but some telephone service providers charge fees), — via e-mail: https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en Information about the EU On the Internet The Europa portal provides information on the European Union in all official languages: https://europa.eu/european-union/index_en EU publications You can, in part, download or order EU publications at https://publications.europa. eu/en/publications.
If you wish to obtain several copies of a free publication, please contact Europe Direct or the information office nearby (see https://europa.eu/european-union/contact_en).
Information on EU law Information on EU law, including all EU legislation since 1952 in all official languages, is available in EUR-Lex: https://eur-lex.europa.eu EU Open Data Via its Open Data Portal (http://data.europa.eu/euodp/en) the EU provides data sets.
The data can be downloaded free of charge for commercial and non-commercial purposes.
ISBN 978-92-847-4609-5 QJ-AA-20-001-EN-C
THE EUROPEAN COURT OF AUDITORS 2013 Brief information on the EU's audit Presentation of the Court of Auditors' annual reports for the financial year 2013
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union, 2014 ISBN 978-92-872-0998-6 doi:10.2865/23970 © European Union, 2014 Reproduction is authorised provided the source is acknowledged.
EN 2013 Brief information on the audit of the EU Presentation of the annual reports of the European Court of Auditors for the financial year 2013
President's Preface 02 Every November, the European Court of Auditors reports on the results of its annual audits of EU financial management in the previous financial year.
On the basis of the audit evidence obtained, the Court provides a guarantee of reliability for the use of EU funds and highlights the greatest risk of EU funds being used incorrectly.
The reports also contain recommendations for possible improvements in EU financial management.
In this way, the Court supports the European Parliament and the Council in the review of EU expenditure and helps to ensure that the accountability of EU citizens is effectively exercised.
This "in brief" on the 2013 EU audit summarises and explains the main findings in our 2013 Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget or the European Development Funds.
As in previous years, the reports show the extent to which EU and national financial management actors have provided a true picture of the management of funding in their reports, ensured the application of EU financial rules and respected the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
2013 was the last year of a seven-year programming period and we publish our annual reports on this financial year in a transition period that is important for the EU and its finances.
Our reports show that a new European Parliament and a new Commission are facing both long-standing and new challenges for financial management and accountability in the 2014-2020 programming period which is now under way.
The pressure on EU and national finances still requires careful management and control of EU funds and better forecasts of long-term financing needs.
In particular, we note in our reports that the Commission and the authorities of the Member States must pay more attention to the need for EU funding to achieve results that could not be achieved in the same way as efficiently or effectively.
At the same time, the Court's audit results show that more can and should be done to ensure that EU spending is in line with the rules.
The Court will be pleased to take the opportunity to assist the new European Parliament and the new Commission in solving these and other problems of financial management and accountability at EU level.
To this end, we have also developed two landscape analyses based on our audit experience, which highlight the EU's key challenges in the areas of accountability, audit and financial management.
Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President of the European Court of Auditors
Content 03 Page 04 Overall Results 04 Key Statements 05 Proper use of EU funds 15 EU funds and results 18 Detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure 18 Revenue 20 Agriculture: market support and direct payments 22 Rural development, environment, fisheries and health 24 Regional policy, transport and energy 26 Employment and social affairs 28 External relations, external assistance and enlargement 30 Research and other internal policy areas 32 Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 33 European Development Fund (EDF) 35 Background information 35 Audit approach at a glance 37 The European Court of Auditors and its work
Overall Results 04 Key Statements Summary of the Statement of Assurance for 2013 The European Court of Auditors (EuRH, "the Court") gives an unqualified audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts of the European Union for 2013.
The total revenue for 2013 is legal and correct.
The overall commitments for 2013 are legal and regular.
The 2013 payments are largely affected by errors.
The Court therefore gives a failed opinion on its legality and regularity.
The Court estimates the error rate, which measures the extent of irregularities, at 4.7% for payments for 2013. This figure is close to the error rate for 2012 (4.8%) and is consistently above the materiality threshold of 2%. ο Overall, the monitoring and control systems examined – with significant differences between Member States – ensured that payments were regular. ο The two expenditure areas were most wrongly affected by regional policy, transport and energy with an error rate of 6.9% and rural development, environment, fisheries and health with an error rate of 6.7%.
In the case of shared management as a whole, i.e. with the inclusion of the agricultural sector: market support and direct payments, and employment and social affairs, the estimated error rate was 5.2%. ο Corrections and recoveries by the authorities in the Member States and the Commission had a positive impact on the estimated error rate.
Overall results 05 The EU budget is used correctly The EU budget for 2013 Every year, the Court examines the revenue and expenditure of the EU and assesses in its audit opinion the reliability of the annual accounts and the compliance of revenue and expenditure operations with the rules and regulations in force.
In 2013, the total EU budget expenditure amounted to EUR 148.5 billion or around 290 per citizen.
These expenditures represent about one percent of the EU's gross national income and represent about two percent of the total public expenditure of the EU Member States.
The EU budget is adopted annually by the European Parliament and the Council, on the basis of a seven-year financial framework.
The Commission's primary task is to ensure that the budget is spent properly.
The Commission shares this task with the EU Member States for around 80% of expenditure, particularly in the fields of agriculture and cohesion.
Where do the funds come from?
The EU budget is financed from various sources.
The largest share is made up of payments made by Member States on the basis of their gross national income (€ 110.0 billion).
Other sources include Member States' payments based on VAT (14.5 billion euros) and customs and agricultural duties (15.4 billion euros).
The annual EU budget is spent in a wide range of policy areas (see Graph 1).
Payments are made to support activities as diverse as research projects, training unemployed people or agricultural production.
Overall results 06 Expenditure for 2013 6.9% Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 8.9% Research and other internal policies 9.4% Employment and social affairs 9.9% Rural, environmental, fisheries and health development 4.2% External relations, external assistance and enlargement Expenditure for 2013 total 148.5 billion EUR 30.4% Regional policy, transport and energy 30.3% Agriculture: market support and direct payments Audit findings for 2013 A key element of the Court's audit work is the examination of samples of operations taken from all parts of the EU budget to arrive at statistical estimates of the error of revenue and the various expenditure areas.
The results for 2013 are summarised in Figure 2.
Further information on the Court's audit approach and the estimation of the most likely error rate can be found on page 35.
Audit of transactions for the EU budget as a whole - Results for 2013 Amount audited and most likely error rate Revenue Expenditure Audit conclusion 0.0 % 4.7 % €150 billion Not substantially affected by errors To a significant extent, error-related 0 €30 billion €60 billion €90 billion €120 billion % Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on quantifiable errors detected in the statistical sample of transactions) Graph 2 Graph 1
Overall results 07 For 2013, the Court concludes that revenue was not significantly affected by errors.
For the total expenditure budget, the estimated error rate is 4.7%, resulting in a failed audit opinion on the regularity of expenditure (an explanation of the term ‘orderlyness' can be found on page 36).
For further information on the various areas of expenditure, see pages 18 to 34 and the corresponding chapters of the annual report for the financial year 2013.
Review of transactions in the individual EU expenditure areas – Results for 2013 Amount verified and most likely error rate 6.9% 3.6% 3.1% 6.7% 4.6% 2.6% Employment and social affairs sector In the main error-laden area Regional policy, transport and energy and energy audit conclusions Agriculture: market support and direct payments Rural development, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 1.0% 0 €10 billion €20 billion €30 billion €40 billion €50 billion Most likely error rate (estimated error rate based on quantifiable errors found in the statistical sample of transactions) Note: The Court uses standard statistical methods to estimate the error rate (see Annex 1.1 to the Annual Report). % Graph 3 Overall results 08 Analysis of audit results The Court estimates the error rate, which is measured by the extent of irregularities, for payments for 2013 at 4.7%.
This figure is close to the 2012 error rate (4.8%) and is constantly above the 2 % materiality threshold (see Graph 4). Estimated error rate for the EU budget as a whole (2007-2013) EU expenditure 10 % 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% 6.9% 5.2 % 4.8% 4.7% 3.3% 3.7% 2007 2008 Upper error limit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 % Estimated error rate Lower error limit Note: The Court uses statistical standard methods to estimate the most likely error rate.
The Court is 95 % sure that the error rate for the population concerned is between the lower error limit and the upper error limit.
Further details are given in Annex 1.1 and Figure 1.3 of Chapter 1 of the Annual Report.
Overall results 09 Errors, waste and fraud The Court's estimate of error rate is not a measure of fraud, inefficiency or waste.
It is a damage to the funds that should not have been paid out because they have not been used in accordance with the applicable legislation.
Typical errors include payments for ineligible expenditure or purchases where the procurement rules have not been properly applied.
Fraud is a deliberate act of deception with the aim of gaining advantages.
The Court shall forward cases to OLAF (the EU Anti-Fraud Office) which it shall carry out during its audits and in which it shall suspect fraud, which shall be responsible for carrying out any further investigations in cooperation with the authorities in the Member States.
A comparison of the error rates estimated for the various areas of expenditure is shown in Figure 5.
Higher quotas in the field of research and other internal policies, administrative expenditure and related expenditure have been offset by lower quotas in the areas of rural development, environment, fisheries and health, as well as external relations, external assistance and enlargement.
As in 2012, the two spending areas were the most flawed: regional policy, transport and energy, rural development, environment, fisheries and health.
These two areas, together with the other two areas of shared management (agriculture: market support and direct payments, employment and social affairs), have an estimated error rate of 5.2 %.
For all other operational expenditure (mainly managed directly by the Commission), the estimated error rate was 3.7 %.
The Court also found that administrative expenditure was estimated to be error rate of 1.0%.
Overall results 10 Comparison of the estimated error rates in the various EU spending areas for 2012 and 2013 8% 6% 4% 2% 0 6.8 % 6.9% 6.7% 2012 2013 7.9% 3.8% 3.6% 3.2% 3.1% 3.1% 4.6% 3.9% 3.3% 2.6% 0% 1.0% Regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: market support and direct payments Employment and social development of rural areas, environment, fisheries and health Research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure Graph 5
Overall results 11 Breakdown of estimated total error rate by area of expenditure and type of error Regional policy, transport and energy Agriculture: market support and direct payments Rural development, environment, fisheries and health Employment and social research and other internal policies External relations, external assistance and enlargement Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 4.7% Errors in agricultural land declarations Serious infringements of procurement rules Ineligible projects, activities or beneficiaries Inclusion of ineligible costs in 1.8% Cost allocations % Total estimated error rate for the EU budget % Share of total error rate (in percentage points) 2.1% 1.1% 0.7% Other error rates 0.3 % 0.3 % 0.1 % 0.2% Total error rate 0.6 % 1.0 % 1.1% Share of the estimated total error rate by type of error by area of expenditure Graph 6
Overall results 12 The Court analyses the contribution of the different types of error and the different areas of expenditure to the estimated total error rate (see Graph 6).
Expenditure that did not meet the necessary conditions to be claimed under EU funded projects was the largest proportion of the estimated total error rate (involving ineligible costs in cost statements: 39 % or 1.8 percentage points of the estimated total error rate).
Second, projects were in which either the financed object/activity or the beneficiary should not have been supported under the applicable rules (non-eligible projects/activities or beneficiaries: 22 % or 1.1 percentage points of the estimated total error rate).
As the largest expenditure area, which is still the highest estimated error rate, the regional policy, transport and energy sector by far contributes most to the estimated overall error rate (44% or 2.1 percentage points of the estimated total error rate).
The agricultural sector: market support and direct payments, where expenditure was almost the same, contributes roughly half as much to the estimated overall error rate.
Corrective measures have a positive impact on the error rate Member States and the Commission are applying corrective measures to protect the EU budget in cases of ineffective control systems or irregular expenditure.
If such corrective measures had not been taken in respect of the 2013 payments audited by the Court, the estimated total error rate would have been 6,3 % instead of 4,7 %.
However, the estimated error rate could be reduced significantly by improving the application of existing control systems and corrective measures.
The Court noted that the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors in a large part of the error-related operations in the areas of shared management before the Commission was requested to refund them.
For example, this would have reduced the estimated error rate in regional policy, transport and energy from 6.9% to 3.9%, in rural development, environment, fisheries and health from 6.7% to 2.0% and in employment and social affairs from 3.1% to 1.9%.
New challenges for the presentation of reliable financial information Reporting on the corrective adjustments mentioned above does not clearly distinguish between the main types of corrective adjustments and the information is largely provided outside the accounting system.
This makes more detailed analysis difficult and reduces the accuracy of the figures in the accounts and related financial reporting.
Another development is the increasing use of financial instruments to support investment in potentially economically viable projects in the form of loans, guarantees, equity and other risk mechanisms.
Due to its complex structure, financial instruments require particular care in assessing and recording them in accordance with internationally recognised public sector accounting principles.
Overall results 13 Continuous increase in amounts to be financed from future budgets Among the main features of the EU's 2013 budget and financial management are: ο a strong increase in the volume of payments that the Commission was allowed to make through amending budgets: 9.6% of the initial budget; ο a sustained increase in commitments that will give rise to payments in the future (by 2.6%) despite the high level of payment; ο a period of time (on average more than two years) between the date of initial commitment and the date on which the Commission accepted the declarations of expenditure; ο only 37% of the appropriations allocated to financial instruments had been paid to final beneficiaries at the end of 2012; ο repayments, interest and dividends of EUR 259 million accumulated since 2008 were not recognised as revenue.
What are obligations and payments?
The EU budget consists of two elements: commitments (in current or in coming years) and payments (covering the current year of disbursed support).
Payments can only be made against valid commitments.
The annual ceilings for commitments and payments are set out in the multiannual financial framework agreed by the Council and Parliament.
The nature of EU spending programmes, in particular the long period between commitment and payment, has increased pressure on future payment budgets.
This is reflected in a significantly higher budget for payments in 2013, and this trend will continue in a similar way in future budgets.
Overall results 14 How can the Court view budgetary management and financial management to increase the accuracy of the figures by recording the information within traditional accounting systems; ο record and evaluate all financial instruments and financial instruments in line with internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in particular by means of reliable procedures for identifying and recording impairments; ο provide information on cash held until payment to final beneficiaries; ο prepare and publish a long-term cash flow forecast which is updated annually; this would facilitate the stakeholders concerned to identify future payment needs and set budget priorities.
Full information on the main audit findings can be found in Chapter 1 "Declaration of reliability and related statements" of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2013.
Overall results 15 EU funds and results delivery EU funds should be used in accordance with the principles of sound financial management (sparability, efficiency and effectiveness).
Against this background, it is necessary to achieve a good performance input (financial, personnel, material, organisational or regulatory resources required for the implementation of the programme), outputs (to be achieved under the programme), results (immediate changes caused by the programme for the direct stakeholders or direct beneficiaries) and effects (long-term societal changes, at least partly due to EU action).
The Court assesses these aspects in its economic audits.
The emphasis is not enough on performance In the 2007-2013 programming period, the use of EU funds was focused on absorption (use it or lose it – non-use decay) and compliance with legislation and not good performance.
The choice of projects for EU funding, for example, was the first priority for the use of available EU funds, second for the compliance with the rules, and third for the achievement of results and impacts, and only to a certain extent.
This lack of emphasis on performance is a crucial weakness in the way a large part of the EU budget is built.
According to the Commission, the 2014-2020 programming period is more focused on performance, with performance-related reserves being the main incentive.
By means of these reserves, the Commission will retain 6% of the resources allocated to individual Member States until the performance is considered satisfactory.
However, in practice, input and output indicators will continue to be largely decisive for the release of funds.
The Commission will use result indicators only in a few areas.
Whether performance-related reserves work more effectively will depend on the success of the Commission in negotiating appropriate targets and milestones at the beginning of the programming period and in obtaining accurate, reliable and up-to-date data from Member States to determine whether the targets have been achieved.
The reporting framework is not appropriate for the desired performance culture Performance reporting is spread across several general reports at the level of the general budget.
These reports do not provide any information on progress towards achieving the Europe 2020 Strategy objectives, nor do they provide a comprehensive overview of the results in the form of EU added value.
However, the fourth evaluation report is a step in the right direction in that it seeks to link the main financial programmes with the available performance information relevant to the Europe 2020 strategy.
At the level of each Directorate-General of the Commission, performance objectives for policy areas within their respective responsibilities are defined in the management plans, and thereafter reported in the annual activity reports.
The Court's analysis of the management plans and annual activity reports of the Commission's Directorates-General shows that the assurance of reliability is limited to aspects of regularity and internal control and does not take performance aspects into account.
Moreover, the objectives would be too general to serve management purposes and the selected indicators are not always suitable for performance measurement.
Overall results 16 The added value of EU expenditure is not always demonstrated In the 19 special reports adopted by the Court in 2013, an economic impact assessment will cover a wide range of issues and assess whether EU intervention has been carried out in accordance with the principles of sound financial management (sparability, soundness and effectiveness).
The Court examined the lessons learned from its 2013 Special Reports on the development of new programmes and projects for the 2014-2020 programming period and concluded that ο EU added value could not always be ensured. ο In several cases, there were potential take-over effects, i.e. the beneficiaries had carried out the activity without EU funding.
Example: European Globalisation Adjustment Fund The European Globalisation Adjustment Fund compensates workers affected by mass redundancies.
The Court noted that one third of the funding was used for measures that would have been paid by Member States anyway (Special Report No 7/2013 "Has the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund provided an EU added value in the reintegration of redundant workers?").
Example: Risk-Sharing Finance Facility The Commission had not sufficiently demonstrated that the EU funds provided under the Risk-Sharing Finance Facility (financial instrument to facilitate access to external funding in the field of research) resulted in higher investments than the beneficiaries would make without public funds (Special Report No 2/2013 "Did the Commission ensure efficient implementation of the Seventh Research Framework Programme?)
Overall results 17 Most of the Court's recommendations have been implemented The follow-up to the Court's recommendations made following audits of the audit is a key part of the accountability cycle and can help the Commission effectively implement the recommendations contained in the reports.
The Court analysed how the Commission continued to deal with recommendations from eight special reports adopted in 2007-2010 and found that the Commission had implemented either fully or largely 79 % of the recommendations.
The Court recommends that the Commission: ο The Commission should streamline the framework for its performance reporting in the next revision of the Financial Regulation. ο The Commission should ensure that the evaluation report contains a summary overview of all available information on progress towards achieving the Europe 2020 objectives. ο The Commission should further develop its performance management and reporting system to ensure that it can take responsibility for the sound financial management and the contribution of the EU budget to policy success.
Full information on the Court's assessment of performance can be found in Chapter 10 "EU budget and results of the annual report on the implementation of the EU budget for the 2013 budget.
All special reports are available on the Court's website: http://www.eca.europa.eu/en/ Pages/AuditReportsOpinions.aspx.
The contributions calculated on the basis of the gross national income (GNI) of the Member States and the VAT collected by the Member States accounted for 74% and 10% of the revenue respectively in 2013.
Import duties and the sugar production levy levied by the authorities in the Member States on behalf of the EU accounted for 10% of the EU's revenue, while the remaining 6% came from other revenue.
Explanation on the audit of EU revenue EU revenue based on GNI and VAT is calculated on the basis of macroeconomic statistics and estimates provided by Member States.
The Court's audit of the regularity of the underlying transactions relates to the processing of these data by the Commission, but not to the initial collection of those data by the authorities in the Member States.
Consequently, the Court's conclusion on the audit concerns the impact of any errors by the Commission on the total amount of revenue.
As regards customs duties, the Court examines how the Commission deals with the reports submitted by Member States on the claims found.
These data are not sufficiently harmonised among Member States.
A reservation is an instrument that allows the possibility of correction to be kept open for a disputed element in GNI data transmitted by a Member State.
There is a general reservation regarding the Greek GNI data for 2008 and 2009, as the data are still based on provisional estimates.
This aspect is part of a problem that affects Greece's overall economic accounts.
Detailed examination of revenue and expenditure sectors 19 The customs authorities of the Member States shall carry out checks to verify that importers comply with customs and import requirements.
The Court noted that the quality of these controls was very different in the Member States visited.
This may lead to importers deciding to notify goods in a Member State other than the one in which they are established in order to reduce the likelihood of control and to make it more difficult to collect the duties due.
One example of this approach seems to be the case of an importer who unloaded Chinese textiles in Hamburg (Germany) and transported them to Rotterdam where they were declared for free circulation and then sent to Poland for final sale.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission that: ο The Commission should work to ensure that Member States harmonise their methods for calculating data on unobserved economic activity. ο The Commission should draw up a detailed action plan with clear milestones and monitor its implementation in the best possible way to address the problems of preparing Greece's overall economic accounts. ο The Commission should set minimum standards for controls by the Member States' customs authorities in order to allow for a more targeted focus on high-risk importers.
The full information on the Court's audit of EU revenue can be found in Chapter 2 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
20 This expenditure covers the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF), one of the two main instruments of the EU's common agricultural policy.
The aim of this policy is to increase the productivity of agriculture, to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural population, to stabilise markets, to ensure supply and to ensure that consumers are supplied at reasonable prices.
Expenditure shall be subject to shared management with Member States.
Yes Estimated error rate: 3.6% (2012: 3.8%) Control systems under investigation: Conditional effect Most expenditure in this area is calculated on the basis of agricultural land.
Many quantifiable errors are the result of inaccuracies in the applications submitted by beneficiaries, most often over-area data (see example).
Example: Overdeclarations – application for aid for non-eligible land In Germany, Ireland, Greece, France, Poland and Romania*, some areas declared as permanent pastures for which payments were made were in fact covered in full or in part with uneligible vegetation (density of bushes or trees).
No EU aid should have been paid for these areas which are not eligible for aid.
In Greece, this error occurred because such areas were classified as eligible grassland and were appropriately covered by the agricultural parcel identification system. * Note on the designation of Member States in the examples: the sampling approach used by the Court does not examine operations every year in each Member State, beneficiary country and/or region.
Examples of errors are intended to illustrate the most common types of errors.
They do not form the basis for conclusions on the Member States, beneficiary countries and/or regions concerned.
For all direct aid schemes, EU aid beneficiaries are legally obliged to "obtain cross compliance" which relates to environmental protection, human, animal and animal health and to the conservation of land in good agricultural and environmental conditions.
If farmers fail to meet these obligations, their aid will be reduced.
In the course of its audits, the Court found that 25 % of the transactions related to those obligations were non-compliance.
In the case of a significant number of error-related transactions, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before the Commission was requested to refund it.
If this information had been used to correct errors before the Commission's expenditure was reported, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 2,5 %.
More detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure sectors 21 The Court's analysis of the integrated management and control systems (IPCoS) in four Member States (Germany, Ireland, France and Italy) revealed weaknesses in administrative control procedures and the quality of databases in three Member States (Ireland, France and Italy), shortcomings in the quality of on-the-spot checks in two Member States (Germany and Italy), weaknesses in the recovery procedures in two Member States (Ireland and Italy).
Despite the shortcomings detected during the audit, the IACOS contributes significantly to the prevention of errors in expenditure covered by this system.
In the Member States that joined the EU in 2004 or later, producer groups in the fruit and vegetable sector can receive EU aid.
For recognition as a producer group, certain conditions must be met with regard to the number and relative size of the member producers.
The Court found that nine of the 40 producer groups examined in Poland did not meet these conditions.
In its 2013 Annual Activity Report, the Commission reported that it had reserved a risk amount of 25% of the total expenditure under the measure in question in Poland.
Our recommendations The Court makes the following recommendations: ο The Commission and the Member States should take the necessary measures to ensure that the potential of IACS is fully exploited, for example, to ensure that the eligibility and size of agricultural parcels are properly assessed and covered. ο The Commission should monitor the corrective measures related to the shortcomings in EU aid to producer groups in Poland. Do you want to know more?
The Court's full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure on market support and direct payments in the agricultural sector can be found in Chapter 3 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
22 This expenditure covers the policy areas "Rural development", "Climate and environmental policy", "Maritime affairs and fisheries", and "Health and consumer protection".
Of these payments, 88% are from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
Expenditure is subject to shared management with Member States.
The EAFRD will co-finance rural development expenditure in relevant programmes of the Member States.
Expenditure covers land-related measures (such as agri-environmental payments and compensation to farmers in areas with natural handicaps) and non-area-related measures (such as modernisation of agricultural holdings and basic services for the rural economy and population).
Yes Estimated error rate: 6.7% (2012: 7.9%) Control systems under investigation: Due to the effectiveness of most errors, the conditions for aid were not met, in particular the following conditions: agri-environmental obligations (see example), special requirements for investment projects and procurement rules.
Example: non-compliance with agri-environmental obligations A farmer in Sardinia (Italy) received compensation for the non-use of polluting plant protection products in the cultivation of artichokes.
In its on-the-spot checks, the Court found that the beneficiary had used such plant protection products 12 times during the period under review.
Therefore, the payment of aid was not considered.
Similar cases of non-compliance with agri-environmental commitments have also been identified in the Piedmont region (Italy) and Hungary, the Netherlands, Poland and Romania.
Detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure 23 In the case of a significant number of error-prone transactions, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before the Commission was requested to refund it.
If this information had been used to correct errors before the Commission's expenditure was reported, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 2.0 %.
The Court's investigation of the control systems for rural development revealed that: ο shortcomings in the controls on eligibility conditions, such as non-coverage of non-eligible VAT amounts or risk of double financing (in seven of the eight Member States examined – Germany, Spain, Italy, Latvia, Malta, Romania and Slovenia; Poland was the exception); ο inadequate assessment of the plausibility of costs (in all four Member States examined – Italy, Latvia, Poland and Romania); ο shortcomings in the design and implementation of cross compliance controls (in all four of the Member States examined – Czech Republic, Spain, Italy and Malta); and, according to the cross compliance obligations, beneficiaries must meet specific conditions, such as environmental and social standards, to be eligible for aid; ο deficiencies in the controls on award rules (in all three Member States examined – Italy, Latvia and Poland; see, for example).
For example, insufficient controls on the procurement rules by the Member State In Latvia, the paying agency was the beneficiary of a EUR 2 million EAFRD aid to finance its outsourced IT system, which was subject to public procurement rules.
The Court noted that several serious errors had occurred in the procurement of the IT system and the subsequent data files.
For example, instead of an open or restricted procedure, as provided for in the legislation, the paying agency applied a negotiation procedure.
Due to non-compliance with the procedures, expenditure is not eligible for EU funding.
Our recommendations The Court makes the following recommendations for rural development: ο Member States should improve the implementation of their existing administrative controls by using all relevant information available to paying agencies.
In this way, the majority of the errors could be detected and corrected. ο Member States should ensure that the action plans aimed at addressing the high estimated rural development burden include all regions and take all measures into account, in particular investment measures, and that they take account of the Commission and the Court's audit findings.
The Court's full information on the Court's audit of EU rural, environmental, fisheries and health expenditure can be found in Chapter 4 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More detailed analysis of the revenue and expenditure areas Regional policy, transport and energy 45.5 billion euros Subject of our audit 24 This audit covered regional policy (which accounts for 96% of the payments in this area of expenditure), financed mainly from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and the Cohesion Fund (CF).
The aim of regional policy is to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the European Union by reducing the disparities between the different regions.
Expenditure on regional policies is subject to shared management by the Commission and Member States, co-financed by approved expenditure programmes.
The remaining 4% of this audited expenditure is covered by transport and energy policies.
Transport and energy policy aims to provide European citizens and businesses with safe, sustainable and competitive transport and energy systems and services.
These expenditure shall be managed directly by the Commission.
Yes Estimated likely error rate: 6.9% (2012: 6.8%) Control systems under investigation: Conditional effectiveness The Court found serious errors in the award of public contracts, which represented 39% of the Court's estimated error rate.
The cumulative value of the 122 awarded procedures is estimated at EUR 4.2 billion.
Example: Unjustified free-hand contracts for additional construction work at the passenger terminal of an airport in Germany were awarded to the original contractor by hand.
This additional work was necessary because of the project's preparation, planning and implementation, and not due to unforeseen circumstances.
In such cases, a free-handed award is inadmissible, which is why the additional work should have been advertised.
Similar cases of unjustified hands-free award were identified in projects in Belgium, the Czech Republic, elsewhere in Germany, Spain, Italy and Sweden.
More detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure 25 The Court's auditors also check whether EU state aid rules are complied with.
Illegal State aid confers an unjustified advantage on the beneficiary bodies and therefore affects the internal market.
Errors related to State aid represented 17% of the estimated error rate in this area (see example).
For example, state aid for a profitable project for a small or medium-sized enterprise (SMEs) in Slovenia has been granted for research and development activities in the automotive industry.
However, the SME was wholly owned by large companies and carried out its research activities exclusively for them.
As more stringent rules on public financing apply to large companies, the company was not entitled to all the funding.
Similar cases were found in Bulgaria and Hungary.
In the case of a significant number of error-related operations, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the errors before the Commission was requested to obtain them.
If this information had been used to correct errors before the Commission's expenditure was reported, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 3,9 %.
The Court's auditors also noted that in 2013 financial instruments still had a low rate of disbursement to final beneficiaries.
The funds concerned support companies or urban development projects through equity investments, loans or guarantees.
The funds will be provided when their legal structure has been established and will then use these funds to support projects.
A total of 940 financial instruments were set up in 25 Member States, with a budget of around EUR 12.6 billion.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission that the Commission should require Member States to confirm in their administrative declarations the effectiveness of primary controls carried out by the managing authority and the certifying authority. ο The Commission should carry out a thorough assessment of the ongoing problem of primary controls carried out by authorities in the Member States during the programming period 2007-2013, as required by the Financial Regulation. ο The Commission should analyse the reasons for the frequency of infringements of EU state aid rules. ο The Commission should reduce the continuing delays in the payment of EU funds through financial instruments.
The Court's full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure on regional policy, transport and energy can be found in Chapter 5 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the financial year 2013.
More detailed analysis of the revenue and expenditure areas Employment and social affairs 16.2 billion euros Subject of our audit 26 The audit covered the expenditure area Employment and social affairs, which forms part of the EU's cohesion policy.
The main objectives of spending in this area are to combat unemployment, develop human resources and promote integration into the labour market.
Employment and social policy is implemented mainly through the European Social Fund (ESF): 98% of the payments made in 2013 in this area of expenditure were borne by this Fund.
The ESF will support investment in human capital in the form of training and other employment measures.
In a private school in Portugal, the full salary of the school director was charged to the EU project, although he had other tasks to perform.
Furthermore, the ceiling for co-financing salaries has not been respected.
The Court also found similar findings in projects in Germany, Spain, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom.
In the case of a significant number of error-related operations, the authorities in the Member States had sufficient information to detect and correct the error before the Commission was requested to obtain it.
If this information had been used to correct errors before the Commission's expenditure was reported, the estimated error rate in this area would have been 1.8%.
Detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure 27 On the recommendation of the Court and with a view to reducing the likelihood of errors and administrative burdens for the promoters, the application of flat-rate amounts and flat-rate rates was extended in 2009 instead of the reimbursement of ‘actual costs'.
In its 2013 audit, the Court did not detect any quantifiable errors in the application of flat-rate amounts and flat-rate rates.
This suggests that projects whose costs are reported using such payment options are less error-prone.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission that: ο The Commission should encourage Member States to strengthen controls on procurement rules, non-project-related costs or projects without EU added value. ο The Commission should ensure that Member States address the problem of imposing higher rates of staff costs on EU projects than on national projects. ο The Commission should ensure that Member States have taken into account all the simplification options provided for in the regulations for the European Structural and Investment Funds for the 2014-2020 period. Do you want to know more?
The full information on the Court's audit of EU expenditure on employment and social affairs can be found in Chapter 6 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the 2013 budget.
28 This expenditure covers expenditure on external relations, development and humanitarian assistance, as well as actions for candidate countries and candidate countries.
Development projects are spread across more than 150 countries worldwide and implementation bodies vary considerably in size and experience.
Support for EU funding projects is conditional on compliance with conditions laid down in specific financing agreements, as well as with other provisions, such as procurement and procurement procedures.
Expenditure is managed either directly by the Commission's Directorates-General – through the central Commission services in Brussels or EU delegations in the beneficiary countries – or jointly with international organisations.
Yes Estimated error rate: 2.6% (2012: 3.3%) Control systems under investigation: Ineffective Most errors concerned ineligible expenditure at final beneficiaries level, such as expenditure incurred outside the eligibility period, inclusion of ineligible expenditure in project cost statements (e.g. VAT, unjustified staff costs or overheads) and not backed up by adequate supporting documents.
The Commission validated pre-accession expenditure for a total of EUR 150 million, although it was not confirmed by evidence that the expenditure was incurred and eligible.
The validated amounts were based on Commission estimates rather than on incurred, paid and accepted costs, supported by relevant evidence.
After the Court has detected this systematic error, the Commission corrected the accounting operations in question.
Example: Unconducted expenditure The Commission signed an agreement of 9.5 million euros with the United Nations Development Programme for Social Development in Moldova.
In 2013, the Commission accepted contracts worth EUR 1.8 million for reimbursement for which no underlying expenditure had yet been incurred.
More detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure sectors 29 Commission Directorate-General EuropeAid manages most of the EU's expenditure on external action from the budget.
The EuropeAid systems studied are assessed as being of limited effectiveness.
In May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an action plan to address the main identified shortcomings.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission that the Commission ensure that the instructions for staff indicate that the final management of expenditure should be based only on expenditure actually incurred and should not be based on own estimates.
The Commission has already agreed to modify its final expenditure procedure accordingly.
The full information on the Court's external relations, external assistance and enlargement audit can be found in Chapter 7 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2013.
30 The main component of this expenditure is research and innovation projects, which in 2013 accounted for EUR 7.7 billion in payments.
The other internal policies concern spending on a number of policy objectives, including education and culture, security, migration and measures to address the consequences of the financial crisis.
The majority of expenditure is managed directly by the Commission.
Yes Estimated error rate: 4.6% (2012: 3.9%) Control systems under investigation: Conditional effective With most payments in this area of expenditure, the Commission will reimburse costs claimed by beneficiaries in project cost statements.
Errors arise when beneficiaries report ineligible costs that are not detected by the control systems before reimbursement by the Commission.
35% of the estimated error rate is due to incorrectly calculated or ineligible personnel costs.
The project is based on the estimates and not on actual personnel costs and working hours not allocated to the project.
Apart from non-compliance with expenditure rules, reimbursement of ineligible costs is also hampered by the successful implementation of policy objectives and thus limits the added value of EU support (see example).
Example: Ineligible expenditure reduces EU added value The EU provides funding to ensure efficient and effective controls at EU external borders.
The Court examined a project in Spain involving the purchase of four helicopters, which were to be used 75% for the control and control of the external borders.
The Court noted, however, that only 25% of the hours worked by helicopters were related to this purpose.
As a result, the EU should have paid only 25% of the costs of helicopters, not the 75% actually taken over.
Detailed analysis of revenue and expenditure sectors 31 The Commission's research expenditure control system monitors progress reports and cost statements on funded projects before payments are made.
The Court noted that the Commission did not always apply procedures in a uniform manner, which could affect the efficiency of the programmes and increase the administrative burden on beneficiaries.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission that the Commission provide current, coherent and clear guidance to beneficiaries and authorities in the Member States on the new research programmes for the period 2014-2020 (Horizon 2020) and other internal policies on eligibility rules and control rules. ο The Commission should make its control activities more risk-oriented by focusing audits on high-risk beneficiaries (e.g. less experienced institutions with EU funding) and reducing the burden of controls on less-risk beneficiaries.
Want to know more?
The Court's full information on the audit of EU research and other internal policies can be found in Chapter 8 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2013.
More information on revenue and expenditure 32 Administrative expenditure and related expenditure 10.6 billion euros Subject of our audit Administrative expenditure and related expenditure include expenditure by the EU institutions and other bodies.
These are the Commission, Parliament, the European External Action Service (EEAS), the European Council and the Council of the European Union, the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Ombudsman and the Data Protection Supervisor.
Staff expenditure (contributions, allowances and pensions) represents 60% of the expenditure, the remainder being for buildings, equipment, energy, communications and information technology.
The Court's audit results for the European Union agencies and other decentralised bodies will be addressed in specific annual reports, including a summary.
No Estimated error rate: 1.0% (2012: 0.0 %) Control systems investigated: Effective The investigation of most control systems revealed no serious deficiencies.
However, the Court notes that the Commission and the EEAS have repeatedly made mistakes in payments of salaries and allowances, and that the procurement procedures of EU delegations (which are subject to the EEAS) are also weak.
Our recommendations The Court recommends that: ο The Commission and the EEAS should take further steps to ensure that the parts of staff files that affect the payment of salaries and allowances are up-to-date. ο The EEAS should support and guide EU delegations in procurement procedures.
The full information on the Court's audit of administrative expenditure and related expenditure can be found in Chapter 9 of the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for the 2013 budget.
Further consideration of the revenue and expenditure areas of European Development Funds (EDF) 2.6 billion euros Subject of our audit 33 Under the EDF, the European Union grants development cooperation funds to the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) States and overseas countries and territories (OCTs).
It also aims to promote sustainable development and the integration of the ACP States and OCTs into the global economy.
The EDFs are financed by the Member States and are subject to their own financial regulation and are managed by the European Commission outside the EU's general budget.
The environment in which external assistance financed by the EDF is implemented is at high risk, in particular because the activities are geographically dispersed and the partner countries do not have sufficient institutional and administrative capacity.
Our findings Reliability of EDF accounting: the annual accounts of the EDFs for 2013 constitute a substantial error in the financial and financial situation of the EDFs, the results of their operations, their cash flows and the changes in net assets as a whole?
No Control systems under investigation: Does EDF commitments have a significant impact on errors?
Yes Estimated error rate: 3.4% (2012: 3.0%) Failure to comply with procurement rules was the cause of around half of the estimated error rate (see example).
Another significant source of error is the lack of supporting evidence.
Example: non-compliance with the procurement rules by the beneficiary The Court examined a call for tenders for IT equipment for a business information centre, financed by a programme to support micro and small enterprises.
The test showed that the contract was not awarded to the tenderer with the lowest price offer, although the lowest price was the award criterion.
The error was not detected by the auditor who audited the programme in accordance with the relevant framework agreement with the Commission.
Detailed consideration of revenue and expenditure 34 The EDFs also provide budget support, where payments are directly transferred to the budget of a developing country, provided that specific conditions are met.
The Court found errors in the budget support operations where the conditions had been misassessed and where the wrong exchange rate was applied to convert the payment into the local currency.
The Commission's Directorate-General for EuropeAid manages not only the bulk of the expenditure on external assistance from the EU budget, but also almost all expenditure under the European Development Fund (EDF).
The EuropeAid systems studied are assessed as being of limited effectiveness.
However, in May 2013, EuropeAid adopted an action plan to address the main identified shortcomings.
Our recommendations The Court recommends to the Commission that: ο The Commission should recover interest on pre-financing. ο The Commission should review the quantification of the benefits of the controls carried out. ο The Commission should report on progress in implementing the action plan to address shortcomings in the control system.
The Court's full information on the audit of the European Development Funds can be found in the annual report on activities under the eighth, ninth and tenth European Development Funds (EDFs) for the financial year 2013.
Background information 35 The audit approach at a glance The Court's audit opinions in the context of the Statement of Assurance are based on objective evidence obtained, in particular through audit procedures carried out in accordance with international audit principles.
The EU budget is complex.
The Commission's Directorates-General arrange hundreds of thousands of entries each year, based on data from many different sources (including Member States).
The Court shall examine whether the accounting procedures are working properly and whether the resulting accounting data are properly recorded and presented in order to determine whether the accounting procedures are correct.
1 Payments entered as expenditure are interim payments, final payments and advances invoiced.
The implementation of the EU budget will provide millions of payments to beneficiaries within the EU and in the rest of the world.
Most of these expenditures are managed by the Member States.
In order to obtain the necessary evidence, the Court shall carry out direct audits of revenue and expenditure incurred and assess the systems by which payments are processed and controlled.
Further information on the audit process with regard to the preparation of the Statement of Assurance can be found in Annex 1.1 to the Annual Report on the implementation of the EU budget for 2013.
Background information 37 The European Court of Auditors and its work The European Court of Auditors (ECA) is the independent audit body of the European Union, based in Luxembourg.
It employs around 900 staff from all EU nationalities, composed of auditors and staff in horizontal services.
Since its establishment in 1977, it has raised awareness of the importance of EU financial management and contributed to its improvement.
The Court's audit reports and opinions are an important link in the EU's accountability chain.
Our results are used to hold the bodies responsible for the EU's budget management accountable, especially in the discharge procedure.
This is mainly the Commission, but it also affects the other EU institutions, bodies and agencies.
Member States also play an important role in shared management.
Our main tasks are: ο auditing accounting and compliance audits, mainly with regard to the Statement of Assurance; ο audit of the financial statements on issues selected in such a way that our work can have the greatest impact; ο opinions on legislation related to financial management and other important issues.
We strive to use our resources to strike a balance between our various areas of activity, to achieve sound results and to cover the various areas of the EU budget effectively.
Background information 38 Our results We present the following results: ο Annual reports on the EU general budget and the European Development Funds; the annual reports mainly include audit opinions in the context of the Statement of Assurance and the relevant results and will be published annually in November; ο Special annual reports on audit opinions on the accounts of each EU agency and other body; 53 reports to be published in 2014; ο Special reports on selected audit issues to be published throughout the year; these are mainly economic audits; approximately 25 reports to be published in 2014; ο Opinions to be used by the European Parliament and the Council in adopting EU legislation with significant implications for financial management; six opinions to be published in 2014; ο Landscape analyses on selected areas of EU policy, analysing the major challenges and long-term trends; ο The annual activity report, information and explanations on our activities in the year concerned.
With our work, we contribute to raising awareness about EU financial management and increasing transparency in this regard by providing a guarantee of reliability in the state of financial management and by making recommendations for further improvements.
This is in the interests of the citizens of the European Union.
Information on the Court's audits of the agencies and other decentralised bodies of the European Union can be found in the specific annual reports for the financial year 2013, available on the Court's website.
The European Court of Auditors is the independent external audit body of the EU - guardians of EU finances In its annual reports on the EU budget and the European Development Funds, the Court gives an audit opinion (declaration of reliability) on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
This briefing provides an overview of the main findings and conclusions.
The full text of the reports is available on the Court's website and will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
2 INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency") based in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1.
The Agency's main task is to assist national regulatory authorities in fulfilling the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and, where necessary, to coordinate the actions of those authorities.
Under the Regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT Regulation)2, the Agency, together with national regulatory authorities, will be given additional tasks in monitoring the wholesale European energy market3.
Therefore, the period from 8 March to 31 December 2011 was examined in relation to the financial year 2011.
EXHIBITIONS TO THE DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY 3. The audit approach of the Court'sanalytical examination procedures,the direct audit of operations and an evaluation of key controls of the Agency's monitoring and control systems.
1 2 3 OJ No.
OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1.
The Annex to this Decision sets out, for information purposes, the Agency's responsibilities and activities.
3 DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY 4. In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court has examined the Agency's annual accounts4 consisting of the "annual accounts"5 and the "annual accounts"6 for the financial year ending 31 December 2011 and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying that account.
Management responsibility 5.Initsfunctionastheindicativeexecutivedirector,the budgetin revenue and expenditurein accordance with the Agency's financial regulation,is autonomous and isconcluded within the limits of the appropriations authorised7.
The Director shall be responsible for the establishment8 of the organisational structure and internal management and control systems and procedures necessary to enable the preparation of a financial statement9 which is free from material misrepresentations, intended or unintended, 4 5 6 7 8 9 The annual accounts shall be accompanied by a report on the financial management and management of the financial year concerned, which shall include additional information on the financial management and management.
The annual accounts include the balance sheet and the financial result overview, the cash flow table, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the main accounting policies and other explanatory notes.
The relevant rules for the accounting and accounting of agencies are laid down in Chapters 1 and 2 of Title VII of Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002, as last amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 652/2008 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2008, p.
ADB001375EN04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
6.The responsibility of the auditor 6.The responsibility of the Court of Justice to provide to the European Parliament and the Council, on the basis of an audit10, a statement of the reliability of the Agency's accounts and the legality and regularity of the operations underlying it.
7. The Court of Auditors carried out its audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing and the professional behavioural requirements of IFAC and the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions of INTOSAI.
These standards require the Court to plan and carry out the audit in such a way as to ensure that the Agency's annual accounts are not materially misrepresentative and that the underlying transactions are lawful and proper.
8.A statutory audit shall include the performance of auditacts in order to obtain audit evidence of the value estimates and other information contained in the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying them.
The selection of audit acts is at the discretion of the examiner. This includes the assessment of the risks of material, intended or unintended misrepresentations in the conclusion and of material, intended or unintended breaches of European Union legislation in the underlying transactions.
In assessing these risks, the auditor shall take into account the internal control system relevant to the preparation and appropriate overall presentation of the financial statements and the 5 monitoring and control systems established to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in order to plan audit actions that are appropriate in the circumstances.
An audit shall also include an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting policies used and the representativeness of the estimated values in the accounting and an assessment of the overall presentation of the financial statements.
9.The Court considers that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to serve as the basis for the following audit opinions.
10.According to the Court's assessment, the Agency's annual accounts11 shall be appropriate to its financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2011 and to the results of its operations and cash flows for the financial year ending on that date in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer12 in all essential respects.
11 12 The final annual accounts were drawn up on 19 June 2012 and received by the Court on 2 July 2012.
The final annual accounts consolidated with the Commission's annual accounts shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 15 November of the following year.
The annual accounts are available at the following addresses: http://eca.europa.eu or http://ww.acer.europa.eu/.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer are based on the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or, in the case of operations for which no IPSAS standards are available, on the International Accounting Standards (IAS) or the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Moreover, the payment rate was low in relation to commitments, with 41% each for Titles II and III.
The high level of unused appropriations and transfers made and the low payment rate are indications of shortcomings in budget planning and implementation and are a violation of the budgetary principle of annuality.
OTHER COMMENTS 14.The transparency of recruitment procedures needs to be improved.
For example, the vacancies did not specify the maximum number of candidates to be included in a reserve list and they did not contain any appeals.
7 the written and oral examinations and their respective weightings are not prepared before the examination of the applications.
15.In 2011, the Agency paid daily allowances of EUR 10 839 to seconded experts who were nationals of the country in which the Agency is based.
This payment is contrary to the rules adopted by the Agency's Management Board for the secondment of national experts, which provide that only temporary staff who are not nationals of the Member State in which they are employed are entitled to daily allowances.
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Louis GALEA, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 5 September 2012.
For the Court of Auditors, Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001375EN04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
8 Annex Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Ljubljana) Union competence under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) Responsibilities of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Commission Regulation (EU) No 838/2010; Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Responsibilities and activities The European Parliament and the Council shall adopt, in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, measures to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
The Union's energy policy, in a spirit of solidarity between Member States, aims to achieve or operate the internal market and to preserve and improve the environment, taking into account the need to ensure the functioning of the energy market;
The European Parliament and the Council shall adopt, in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, the measures necessary to achieve the objectives.
These measures shall be adopted after consultation of the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions.
Objectives The Agency's purpose is to assist national regulatory authorities in fulfilling the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and, where necessary, to coordinate their actions.
Tasks - complement and coordinate the work of national regulatory authorities - participate in the development of rules on European networks - under certain conditions, make binding individual decisions on the modalities for access and operational security of cross-border infrastructures, - advise the European institutions on energy-related issues, - monitor developments in energy markets and related reporting, - draw up a proposal addressed to the European Commission on the annual compensation amount for cross-border infrastructures under the ITC mechanism, - cooperate with national regulatory authorities, ESMA, the competent financial authorities of the Member States and, where appropriate, national competition authorities for the monitoring of wholesale energy markets, - assess the functioning and transparency of different categories of market places and different types of trade, - make recommendations to the Commission on market rules, records of transactions, trade orders, standards and procedures that could improve market integrity and the functioning of the internal market.
The Administrative Board Composition: The Administrative Board shall comprise two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council.
Each member shall have an alternate.
Tasks: The Management Board shall adopt the Agency's annual work programme, adopt its budget and monitor implementation.
Director Management structure The Director will be appointed following a favourable opinion of the Regulatory Council on the basis of ADB001375DE04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
Regulatory Council Composition: The Regulatory Council shall be composed of a senior representative of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a non-voting representative of the Commission.
Each Member shall have an alternate appointed by the national regulatory authority of each Member State.
Tasks: - The Board of Regulators shall submit opinions to the Director on opinions, recommendations and decisions which are considered to be adopted. - It shall direct the Director in the performance of his duties. - It shall give the Management Board an opinion on the candidate to be appointed Director. - It shall approve the Agency's work programme.
External control Court of Auditors.
Parliament discharge authority on Council recommendation.
The Authority's opinion on the Union's ten-year network development plan of the ENTSO Gas; - adoption of the opinion on the 2012 work programme of the ENTSO Electricity; - data requirements and indicators for observation pursuant to Article 11 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009; - adoption of the opinion on the Union-wide ten-year network development plan of the ENTSO Gas; - adoption of the opinion on the operation of the Agency's work group and the establishment of the two-day working group on the adoption of the two-day operation of the Agency and the adoption of the two-day operation of the operation of the Management Board and of the Management Board of the Management Board of the ENTSO Gas; - adoption of the opinion on the Management Board of the ENTSO Electricity; - adoption of the opinion on the Management Board of the Management Board of the ENTSO Electricity; - adoption of the Management Board of the Management Board of the ENTSO Electricity; - adoption of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management Board of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management Board of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of the Management of
Source: Agency information. ADB001375EN04-12PP-CH058-12APCFIN-RAS-2011_ACER-TR.DOC 19.9.2012
ACER - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators ACER - Agence de coopération des régulaurs de l'énergie ANSWERS TO THE AGENCY 13. In the first year of its operation, ACER had to recruit a large part of its staff, which was associated with problems and led to job vacancies being filled late, which was clearly reflected in the use rate of the Agency's budget.
This also affected the estimated procurement needs and resulted in the procurement procedures focusing on the end of the year, thus requiring large transfers to meet the legal and budgetary commitments made.
As most of the posts were filled at the beginning of 2012, ACER is now in a much better position to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it and to carry out the related budget.
14. ACER takes note of the justification of the Court's observations and has already taken corrective action.
15. ACER takes note of the justification of the provisional finding and has already stopped the daily allowances paid to Slovenian ANS.
2 INTRODUCTION 1. The Energy Regulators' Cooperation Agency (hereinafter referred to as "the Agency", also known as "ACER") based in Ljubljana was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council1.
Under the Regulation on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market (REMIT Regulation)2, additional tasks have been entrusted to the Agency and to national regulatory authorities in relation to monitoring the wholesale European energy market3.
EXHIBITIONS TO THE DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY 2. The audit approach of the Court'sanalytical examination procedures,the direct audit of operations and an evaluation of key controls of the Agency's monitoring and control systems.
DECLARATION OF RELIABILITY 3. In accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU), the Court has examined: 1 2 3 OJ L 347, 31.12.1994, p.
The Agency shall be entrusted with an important role in the monitoring of the wholesale energy markets in Europe.
Annex II summarises the Agency's responsibilities and activities for information purposes.
Management responsibility 4. Management responsibility for the establishment and proper overall presentation of the Agency's annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions6:(a) Management responsibility for the Agency's annual accounts includes the design, establishment and maintenance of an internal control system as necessary for the preparation and proper overall presentation of annual accounts that are free of material, intended or unintended misrepresentations, the selection and application of appropriate accounting methods based on accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer7 and 4 5 6 7 The annual accounts comprise the financial statement and the overview of the economic result, the cash flow table, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the main accounting methods and other explanatory notes.
The accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer are based on International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or, where applicable, on International Accounting Standards (IAS)/International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013.
The Director shall approve the Agency's annual accounts after the Agency's accounting officer has drawn up it on the basis of all the information available and has drawn up an accompanying note to the annual accounts stating, inter alia, that he has reasonable assurance that the annual accounts give a true and fair view of the Agency's financial situation in all essential respects. (b) The management's responsibility for the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and for compliance with the principle of sound financial management shall require the design, establishment and maintenance of an effective and efficient internal control system, including appropriate supervision and measures to prevent irregularities and fraud, and, where appropriate, legal steps to recover funds unduly paid or unlawfully used.
The auditor's responsibility 5.The Court's duty to provide the European Parliament and the Council8 with a statement of assurance on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
According to these standards, the Court is required to plan and carry out the audit in such a way as to ensure sufficient certainty as to whether the ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
The selection of the audit acts is at the discretion of the examiner.
In assessing these risks, the auditor shall take into account all internal controls relevant to the preparation and proper overall presentation of the financial statements and the monitoring and control systems established to ensure the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and shall plan audit actions that are appropriate in the circumstances.
Audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts 8.Consequence of the Court's annual accounts of the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2013 and the results of its operations and cash flows for the year ending that date in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting officer of ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
6 The Commission has adopted a number of accounting rules in all the main areas.
10.The following comments do not call into question the Court's judgments.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY MANAGEMENT 11.The Agency has committed EUR 1.9 million or 56% of the total committed appropriations under Title II (Buildings of the Agency and associated costs), mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
This is an operational, multiannual activity which would have been terminated under Title III of the budget.
12.In addition, the Agency has transferred EUR 3.1 million or 91% of the total committed under Title III, also in connection with the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
The exceptionally high transfer rate for Title III is mainly due to an increase in the appropriations of an additional EUR 3 million by means of an amending budget approved on 31 October 2013.
OTHER COMMENTS 13.At the end of the year, the Agency had EUR 5.5 million in cash, including around 3 million from the late adopted ADB001936DE04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014 7 Amending budget (see paragraph 12).
Nevertheless, average cash balances during the year were significantly higher than those justified by operational needs.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE ANNUAL YEARS 14.Annex I provides an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years. This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Milan Martin CVIKL, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 8 July 2014.
For the Court of Auditors, Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President ADB001936EN04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS ANNEX I Year Court comment State of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/e.g.) 2011 The high level of unused appropriations and transfers made and the low payment rate are indications of shortcomings in budget planning and implementation and constitute a breach of the budgetary principle of annuality.
Completed 2011 Transparency of recruitment procedures is in need of improvement.
In addition, questions for written and oral examinations and their respective weighting were not prepared before the examination of applications.
Completed 2012 To cover higher school fees, the Agency grants a special allowance to staff whose children attend primary or secondary schools in addition to the educational allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations1.
In 2012, the total amount of special allowances was around 23 000 euros.
They are not covered by the Staff Regulations and are therefore contrary to the rules.
Completed ADB001936EN04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 2 year Court comment State of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/outgoing/e.g.) 2012 The Agency has transferred commitments of EUR 1.7 million (81 % of the total committed appropriations under Title II) to the following financial year in Title II (buildings of the Agency and ancillary costs) of its budget.
These transfers are mainly linked to the ongoing implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
Since these implementing measures are part of the operational activities of the Agency, they would have been included in the budget under Title III.
Completed 2012 In 2012, the Agency carried out 20 transfers of some EUR 1 million within the budget, with 43 budget lines affected.
Completed 2012 The Agency had EUR 4.2 million in cash at the end of the year, including the 2011 surplus of EUR 1.6 million, resulting from an excessive call-up in 2011, which was recovered by the Commission in January 2013.
2012 The recruitment procedures examined showed weaknesses with regard to transparency and equal treatment of applicants: questions for oral and written examinations were not defined before the examination of applications.
The conditions for admission to the written and oral examinations and for inclusion in the list of suitable candidates were not sufficiently precise and insufficient measures were taken to ensure the anonymity of candidates participating in written examinations.
Article 3 Annex VII of the Staff Regulations provides for double the basic allowance of EUR 252.81, i.e. EUR 505.62.
ADB001936EN04-14PP-CH068-14APCFIN-RAS-2013_ACER-TR.DOC 8.7.2014
1 ANNEX II Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (Ljubljana) Union competence under the Treaty (Article 114 (ex Article 95 TEC) and Article 194 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) Responsibilities of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council; Commission Regulation (EU) No 838/2010; Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council) Responsibilities and activities The European Parliament and the Council shall adopt, in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure and after consulting the Economic and Social Committee, measures to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the establishment and functioning of the internal market.
the structure of the management of incentives and a common methodology for assessing the higher risks incurred in investments in electricity and gas transmission infrastructures.
The Management Board Composition The Management Board shall comprise two members appointed by the European Parliament, two members appointed by the Commission and five members appointed by the Council.
Tasks The Management Board shall adopt the Agency's annual work programme and adopt its budget.
It shall ensure that the Agency fulfils its mandate and performs the tasks assigned to it in accordance with the Agency Regulation.
Director The Director shall be appointed by the Management Board following a favourable opinion of the Regulatory Council on the basis of a list of candidates proposed by the Commission.
Regulatory Council Composition The Regulatory Council shall comprise a senior representative of the regulatory authorities of each Member State and a non-voting representative of the Commission.
Each Member shall have an alternate appointed by the national regulatory authority of each Member State.
Tasks – The Regulatory Council shall submit opinions to the Director on opinions, recommendations and decisions which are considered to be adopted. − It shall direct the Director in the performance of his or her duties. − It shall give the Management Board an opinion on the candidate to be appointed Director. − It shall approve the Agency's work programme.
External control European Court of Auditors.
Budget 2013 (2012) EUR 11.9 (7.2) million. Staff numbers at 31 December 2013 (2012) Staff posts provided for in the establishment plan: 49 (43), of which on 31 December staffed: 49 (42).
Other staff: 20 (14). Total staff: 69 (57), of which: 41 (34), administrative activities: 28 (23). – Framework guideline (gas: framework guideline on rules for harmonised transmission fee structures); organisation of public consultations in accordance with Article 10 of Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 including workshops; − network codes a) seven reasoned opinions on network codes (electricity: network code for longer-term capacity allocation, network code for system operation, network code for operational planning, network code for load frequency control and reserves, network code for customer connection; gas: network code for compensation and network code for interoperability and data exchange); b) four qualified majority recommendations on network codes (all in the field of electricity: network code for connection conditions for all power stations, network code for capacity allocation and congestion management; network code for operational safety and network code for operational planning); 2 The Agency for 2013 (resources for 2012) Products and services in 2013 ADB0036-RACE-2014-14.
Source: Annex provided by the Agency.
ACER - Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators AGENCY REPLY 11. As the Court noted, this deficiency was corrected by the Agency in the case of subsequent commitment appropriations relating to the implementation of REMIT entered in the operational budget lines under Title III.
12. As the auditors already acknowledged, the high transfer rate was due to delays in the implementation of REMIT.
This delay was due to the fact that DG ENER only approved the transfer of the necessary additional funds in October 2013 and that the funds were received by the Agency at the beginning of November 2013.
However, the Agency has succeeded in successfully completing all procurement procedures planned in connection with the implementation of REMIT by December 2013 and the related expenditure will be incurred in 2014.
13. The balance of the accounts at the end of the year was the EUR 3 million received late in the year due to a budgetary adjustment, the remaining amount covering all legal obligations, in particular those relating to REMIT, for which commitments were made towards the end of 2013.
The cash forecast tool introduced in 2014 will allow for better cash management in the future. ACER - DE
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/17 REPORT on the Agency's 2015 accounts for the cooperation of energy regulators, together with the Agency's response (2016/C 449/02) INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also known as the Agency ăACER), was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1).
The Agency's main task is to assist national regulatory authorities in carrying out the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and to coordinate, where necessary, the actions of these authorities.
Under the Regulation on the Integrity and Transparency of the Energy Wholesale Trade Market (REMIT Regulation) (2), the Agency and the national regulatory authorities were given additional tasks in the monitoring of the European Energy Wholesale Trade Market.
2. The table contains the main figures for the Agency (3).
Table Main figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) Staff numbers at 31 December (1) (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
The Court's approach to the audit includes analytical testing, direct testing of reports and an evaluation of key controls of the Agency's monitoring and control systems.
2014 10,9 72 2015 11,3 80 COLLECTION OF ACCOUNT 4. Gemein§ Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) has been submitted by the Court to: a) the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(4) and the financial implementation reports (5) for the financial year ending 31 December 2015, b) the legality and regularity of the underlying provisions of the accounts.
Management responsibility 5. Management is responsible for the establishment and proper overall presentation of the Agency's annual accounts and for the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals (6): (1) OJ C 347, 31.12.1990.
Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2011, p.
In this, the Agency will play an important role in the monitoring of energy wholesale trade in Europe.
(3) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.acer.europa.eu.
(6) Articles 39 and 50 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
C 449/18 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 EN a) The management's responsibility for the Agency's annual accounts includes the design, establishment and maintenance of an internal control system, as necessary for the establishment and proper overall presentation of annual accounts, which are free of material, intended or unintended, wrong representations, the selection and application of appropriate accounting methods based on accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer(7), and the identification of protected values in the accounts, which are reasonable among the circumstances.
The Director shall approve the Agency's annual accounts after the Agency's account holder has drawn up them on the basis of information available in the form of a copy of the annual accounts, including a statement that the Agency's financial position is in line with the relevant accounting record in all essential respects. b) The responsibility of the Agency's management for the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts and for compliance with the principle of sound financial management requires the design, establishment and maintenance of an effective and efficient internal control system, including appropriate supervision and measures to prevent irregularities and fraud, as well as, where appropriate, legal steps to recover funds unduly paid or unlawfully used.
The responsibility of the Court 6. The task of the Court is to give, on the basis of its examination, to the European Parliament and the Council (8) a statement on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts.
According to these standards, the Court is required to plan and execute the examination in such a way that sufficient certainty is obtained as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free of material false representations and the underlying statements are correct and orderly. 7. A test includes the execution of trial proceedings, to obtain proof of the values and other information contained in the annual accounts, and for the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals.
Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (9), the Court considered the independent external expert's work on the Agency's annual accounts when drawing up this report and the declaration of assurance.
8. The Court considers that the evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to serve as the basis for its declaration of independence.
9. According to the Court, the Agency's annual accounts are in line with its financial and financial situation as of 31 December 2015 and the results of its accounts and cash flows for the year ending on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer in all essential matters.
11.
(7) (8) (9) The following observations do not call into question the Court's judgments.
The accounting regulations adopted by the Commission's auditor are based on International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) or, where applicable, on International Accounting Standards (IAS)/International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Article 107 of Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013.
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/19 COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 12. The Agency transferred EUR 1.36 million or 59 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2014: EUR 1.57 million or 62 %).
These transfers were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation (1.1 million euros), a complex multi-annual operational activity in relation to the integrity and transparency of the energy wholesale market.
In addition, the Agency transferred EUR 0.79 million or 35% (2014: EUR 0.98 million or 41%) of the appropriations committed under Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following financial year. These transfers mainly concerned studies and services that were not yet provided in 2015.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 13. Annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Baudilio TOM such as Mr Muguruza, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 13 September 2016.
For the Court of Auditors, Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President
C 449/20 Official Journal of the European Union 1.12.2016 EN Court of Auditors' note The Agency carried over 1.57 million euros and 62 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2013: 3.1 million euros and 91%).
These transfers were mainly related to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation, a complex multi-annual operational activity, on which the implementing regulation was adopted only on 17 December 2014 (1).
The Agency also transferred EUR 0.98 million and 41% (2013: EUR 1.9 million and 56% respectively) of the appropriations committed under Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following financial year. These transfers mainly concerned studies for the implementation of the REMIT Regulation and annual contracts which were extended towards the end of the year.
In October 2013, the Agency received an additional 3 million euros for the implementation of the REMIT Regulation, which it carried out in 2014.
However, the REMIT framework will only apply from October 2015 onwards.
Part of the funding was used in 2014 to prepare for the implementation of the REMIT Regulation.
At the end of 2014, the Agency provided two pre-financing payments of EUR 1.56 million for the sale of services linked to the REMIT Regulation, which is to be provided in 2015-2017, thus avoiding automatic repayment of unused funds to the Commission(2).
Although the Agency can finance its future REMIT-related activities, this approach is in contradiction with the budgetary principle of annuality.
The European School is to be established in Slovenia under the seat agreement between the Agency and the Slovenian Government, but this has still not happened more than four years after the agreement was concluded.
Year 2014 ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' comments Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) n.e.c. 2014 2014 n.e.c. (1) (2) Commission implementing Regulation (EU) No 1348/2014 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2014, p.
Under Article 13 of the EU Financial Regulation, the amounts entered in the budget for the next financial year shall be transferred only to the next financial year.
EN 1.12.2016 Official Journal of the European Union C 449/21 AGENCY REPLY 13. The Agency is aware of the high amounts of funds transferred due to open commitments at the end of the year, mainly due to the long-term nature of the implementation of the REMIT project.
Given the continuing uncertainty about the annual budget allocation to the Agency, the principle of annuality is difficult to reconcile with the inevitable multi-annual nature of the REMIT project.
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/25 REPORT on the Agency's 2016 financial statements for the cooperation of energy regulators, together with the Agency's response (2017/C 417/02) INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also located in Ljubljana, was created by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (1).
The Agency's main task is to assist national regulatory authorities in carrying out the regulatory tasks performed in the Member States at Union level and to coordinate, where necessary, the actions of these authorities.
Table Main figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) Staff numbers at 31 December (1) (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Household data published in OJ.
2015 11.3 80 2016 15.9 103 PR & COURSES 4. We have a) the Agency's annual accounts, comprising the annual accounts(4) and the budget implementation reports (5) for the financial year ending 31 December 2016, and (1) OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1.
(2) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
(3) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.acer.europa.eu. (4) The annual financial statements include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the net loss change table and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(5) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
EN C 417/26 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2016 shall constitute the Agency's annual and financial position as at 31 December 2016, the results of its annual accounts and cash flows, and the changes in the net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2016 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
Payments The judgment of the Court of Justice on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 7. According to our assessment, the payments underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending December 31, 2016 are legal and regular in all essential respects.
Responsibility of management and the responsible for monitoring 8. Gemein§ Articles 310 to 325 TFEU and the financial regulations of the agency is the management responsible for the establishment and overall presentation of the annual accounts on the basis of internationally recognized accounting grounds for the public sector as well as for the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals.
This responsibility includes the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures as necessary for the preparation and presentation of an annual financial statement which is free from material 
The management of the agency exercises the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the underlying accounting decisions.
10. The responsible for the monitoring are responsible for the supervision of the accounting process of the institution.
EN 6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/27 Responsibilities of the Ombudsman for the preparation of the annual accounts and the underlying proposals 11. Our objectives are to obtain sufficient certainty as to whether the Agency's annual accounts are free of material misrepresentations and that the underlying proposals are correct and orderly, as well as to the European Parliament and the Council or other competent discharge authorities on the basis of our examination, to submit a statement on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals.
False representations and understandings can be intended or unintended and will be considered essential if they could be expected individually or collectively to influence the economic decisions made by users on the basis of this annual accounts.
12. A review includes the execution of proceedings to obtain proof of the value and other information contained in the annual accounts, as well as the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. The choice of proceedings is at the discretion of the expert. To this end, the assessment of the risks of essential 
In assessing these risks, the expert takes into account all internal controls relevant to the preparation and appropriate overall presentation of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals, in order to plan appropriate practices among the relevant circumstances, but not with the aim of giving a judgment on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
A review also includes the assessment of the adequacy of accounting policies used, the representativeness of the financial statements as measured by management and the assessment of the overall presentation of the annual accounts.
13. As regards revenue, we shall review the grant received by the Agency from the Commission and assess its procedures for collecting fees and other revenue, if relevant.
14. As regards expenditure, we examine the payment arrangements after the expenditures have been paid, recorded and accepted.
Advance payments are made after the reprimand has been proven to be correct and the agency has accepted the proofs by billing the advance payment in the same year or later.
15. In the context of Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (6), we took into account the work of the independent external expert on the Agency's annual accounts when drawing up this report and the declaration of assurance.
16. The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 17. In its May 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed the urgent need to clarify roles and responsibilities and to analyse the workload of the contracting authority in order to increase the efficiency of processes and procedures.
The IAS also concluded that planning and monitoring of procurement must be significantly improved.
The Agency and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 18. The Agency transferred EUR 4.9 million or 86% of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2015: EUR 1.4 million and 59 %).
As in previous years, these transfers were mainly linked to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation on the Integrity and Transparency of the Energy Wholesale Trade Market(7) and amounted to 4.7 million euros in 2016 (2015: 1.1 million euros).
For Title II (Administrative expenditure), the Agency transferred EUR 1 million and 38% of the committed appropriations to the following financial year (2015: EUR 0.8 million and 35% respectively).
19. The increase in the appropriations is worrying and is contrary to the budgetary principle of annuality.
The higher transfer rate is directly linked to the conclusion or signing of procurement procedures and contracts by the end of the year, leading to a shift of deliveries and/or payments to the following year.
In 2016, 98 out of a total of 299 sales were signed in November and December (5 976 122.47 euros and 40% of the total value of the 2016 closed sales).
The Agency may make use of separate budget resources to better meet the multi-annual nature of the activities and inevitable delays between contract signings, deliveries and payments.
(6) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
(7) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
This report was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Baudilio TOM such as Mr Muguruza, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 12 September 2017.
6.12.2017 Official Journal of the European Union C 417/29 EN Court comments Gems§ The seat agreement between the Agency and the Slovenian government is to be established in Slovenia a European school, but this has still not happened more than four years after the conclusion of the agreement.
The Agency transferred EUR 1.36 million and 59% of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2014: EUR 1.57 million and 62%).
These transfers were mainly linked to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation (1.1 million euros), a complex multi-annual operational activity in relation to the integration and transparency of the energy wholesale market.
In addition, the Agency transferred EUR 0.79 million and 35% (2014: EUR 0.98 million and 41%) of the appropriations committed under Title II (administrative expenditure) to the following financial year. These transfers mainly concerned studies and services that were not yet provided in 2015.
Year 2014 2015 ANNEX Follow-up of comments from previous years of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.)
EN C 417/30 Official Journal of the European Union 6.12.2017 ANSWER OF THE AGENCY 18. The Agency has successfully implemented the measures as agreed with the IAS.
Of the six recommendations, two very important and three important have already been completed.
The Agency plans to finalise the last recommendation by October 2017.
19. The Agency notes that the funds transferred are high due to the multi-annual investments in connection with the REMIT Regulation and are difficult to reconcile with the budgetary principle of annuality.
The high level of funding is the result of the planning of the annual contract cycle, which was established in 2013, when the Agency received additional budget appropriations for the REMIT project at the end of the year.
Nevertheless, it should be noted that the commitment for the financial year 2016 was implemented at 100% under the REMIT chapter.
The Agency will analyse the implementation of separate budget appropriations for Title III.
20. The Agency considers that the introduction of separate funds for Title III better reflects the multi-annual nature of some of its activities, especially in the area of REMIT, provided that the financial resources allocated to the Agency are stable and predictable.
The following are the comments of the European Foundation for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA-London), together with the Agency's replies 27 Report on the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (HABM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (HABM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (HABM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (HABM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (HABM-Alicante), together with the replies of the Office for Harmonisation in the light of the replies of the European Training Foundation (ESB-Turin) and the replies of the Agency 38 Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (A-Kopen-A) and the replies of the Office for Harmonisation in the light of the replies to the report on the reports of the European Training Foundation (ESB-Turine), the replies to the Office for Harmonization in conjunction with the replies of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market (A-A-A-A-A-Aly
1), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 (OJ L 347, 31.12.1993, p.
The Court examined the financial statements of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year ending 31 December 1995.
In accordance with Article 18(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (OJ L 347, 31.12.1976, p.
15), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
The latter shall also be responsible for drawing up and presenting the financial statements in accordance with the financial rules, in accordance with Articles 65, 61 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93.
The Court of Auditors is required to examine these financial statements in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The European Council of 29 October 1993 decided to transfer Cedefop's headquarters from Berlin to Thessaloniki.
In order to facilitate this move, certain changes have been made to the conditions of employment of staff, some of which were not in accordance with the existing regulations.
The exact circumstances are explained in paragraphs 46 - 66.
In addition, a number of other cases were identified where payments were not fully in line with the existing regulations.
The Court can, on the basis of its audit, establish with sufficient certainty that the financial statements for points 10 11 12 are reliable for the financial year ending 31 December 1995 insofar as they reflect the revenue and expenditure for 1995 and the financial situation at the end of the year.
Apart from the important exception in the expenditure field mentioned in the previous paragraph, the underlying transactions were, as a whole, legal and proper.
General comments Background 6. The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 as a European Community satellite body and is intended to promote vocational training at Community level.
Cedefop began its work in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Thessaloniki in 1995.
The Centre's task, as defined in the said Regulation, is to'support the Commission in promoting and developing vocational training and continuing training at Community level', to contribute to the implementation of a common vocational training policy and, in particular, to the exchange of information and experience.
In the field of vocational training, the Centre's task is in particular to 'create documentation, contribute to the development and coordination of research, ensure the dissemination of relevant documentation and information, promote and support initiatives which can achieve a coordinated solution (in particular in the area of the approximation of training levels and mutual recognition of certificates) and provide a meeting place for the parties concerned'. 8. The Centre is managed by a board of 48 members (in 1995 costs of ECU 334 000 were incurred in this context).
The Board of Directors shall elect a chairman and three vice-chairmen from among its members for a period of one year.
At the time of the audit (May 1996), the Chairman of the Administrative Council was the Director-General of DG XXII — Education, Training and Youth.
The Director of the Centre shall be appointed by the Commission on the basis of a list of candidates submitted by the Board of Directors.
9. In accordance with the basic Regulation, the Director is responsible for the daily management of the Centre, while the Board of Directors is responsible for the overall management.
The Management Board shall take decisions, adopt the work programme and the annual report, prepare the revenue and expenditure plan for the previous year and estimate the revenue and expenditure for the coming year.
The Commission's role, as set out in the basic Regulation, is not only to represent the Commission's interests within the Management Board, but also to adopt the work programme, to examine the annual report and the revenue and expenditure schedule and to forward the estimates of revenue and expenditure to the Council and the European Parliament.
(a) a reasonable cost-benefit-benefit-benefit-is to receive the budget expenditure to support Cedefop;
Financial data 14. For the 1995 financial year, the Centre has available an appropriation of ECU 16.50 million.
The commitments entered into resulted in payments of ECU 10.11 million and transfers to the 1996 financial year of ECU 4.67 million, with the remaining amount of ECU 1.72 million being cancelled.
The appropriations carried over from the previous year were disbursed to ECU 2.16 million and annulled ECU 0.29 million.
Annex 1 to this report gives an analysis of the use made of appropriations for the financial year and of the appropriations carried over from 1994.
Annex 2 gives an overview of the budget accounts for the financial year 1995 and the balance sheet of assets and liabilities at 31 December 1995.
Comments on the implementation of the budget Separation of activities 15. After moving to Thessaloniki, the Centre had not yet introduced adequate procedures for separating the activities of the authorising officer, accounting officer and imprest administrator until the date of the audit (May 1996).
For example, it was observed that the accounting officer took over the duties of the imprest administrator.
The proportion of payments made without the approval of the financial control unit is still high (in 1995 it was 60% without salaries).
The strong use of the paying agency procedure is not in line with the spirit of the financial rules.
A more acceptable practice would be to handle only current expenditure and expenditure in a small amount, where the risk of irregularities is comparatively low, through the paying agency.
Transfers within the budget 17. The transfers between different budget lines amounted to ECU 922,000 in 1995, i.e. 5.6% of the initial budget compared with 10.9% in 1994.
No C 81/4 EN   
18. The Centre did not carry out any transfers of funds between different titles in 1995.
The Court's remark (2) was therefore taken into account last year.
Transfers and cancellations of appropriations 19. The practice of transferring large amounts of appropriations, which had already been observed in previous years (3), was still increasing in 1995.
In 1995, only 61% of the final appropriations were paid out compared with 73% in 1994.
The proportion of commitments transferred to 1996 was 28% (compared to 23% in 1994).
The proportion of appropriations lost was 10% compared with 5% in 1994.
Table 1 shows by title the appropriations carried over from the original 1995 budget and their subsequent use.
The transfers in the field of operational expenditure amounted to 53% of the initial appropriations compared with 40% in 1994.
Since 8% of operational expenditure was spent, this means that the Centre paid only 39% of its 1995 operational budget in 1995.
At the end of the first quarter of 1996, only 34% of the appropriations carried over from 1995 were paid out under Title 3.
The high number of transfers within the budget and the cancellations and the large amount of transfers to the next financial year suggest that the work programme has not been implemented as planned and that the principles of economic management have been jeopardised.
This fact and the lack of staff (see paragraphs 42 - 45) will have serious implications for the implementation of the 1996 budget.
The Commission paid the grant for the general budget of the Communities for the financial year 1995 in several instalments.The first tranche of ECU 2 300 000 was paid on 6 February 1995, followed by further tranches of ECU 2 400 000 on 20 April 1995, of ECU 2 500 000 on 28 June 1995, of ECU 2 800 000 on 5 October 1995, of ECU 5 875 000 on 22 November 1995 and of ECU 525 000 on 1 December 1995.
As in previous years,4 this rate of payment is not in line with the Court's annual report for 1994.
(3) Annual reports of the Court on the 1992 financial years, 1993 with Article 26 of the financial rules for the Centre, according to which payments are to be made in the first half of each quarter and adapted to actual needs.
Expenditure 23. After a decision had been taken to move the Centre to Thessaloniki, a new Deputy Director was appointed in 1994 who at that time lived and worked in Thessaloniki.
Staff moved to Berlin and received a facility allowance equal to twice the basic salary. Not even one year later, i.e. after the move of the centre to Thessaloniki, the same staff member received a new facility allowance equal to twice the basic salary.
The Centre's transfer was rapid, so the staff in question stayed in Berlin only for a short time (11 months), and spent part of that time in Thessaloniki, receiving full daily allowances (including weekends), and the Court considers that these decisions are not in line with the principle of sound financial management and are contrary to Cedefop's principles of efficiency.
24. The contract of another deputy director, who had already moved from Berlin to Madrid in July 1995', was signed by the Board of Directors with effect from 3 January 1995.
The staff member was then paid ECU 71 030.
The Court considers that this decision by the Board of Directors is not in line with the principles of economic governance.
25. Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993, allows the award of a contract by private individuals where the total amount of the contract does not exceed ECU 12 000.
At least 12 cases were awarded in respect of a higher amount than ECU 12 000 without complying with the procurement procedure described in Article 45 of the said Regulation.
The Commission has also proposed a new programme for the development of the European Community's research and development programme in the field of research and technological development.
The budget line 'Exchanging officials and experts' involved ECU 150 572 to pay an expert who began his work at Cedefop on 1 February 1996 and another expert whose contract was signed on 22 December 1995.
These commitments were made overhappy to avoid the loss of funds.
27. The rent for the temporary premises of Cedefop for January 1996 (22 750 ECU) was already included in the 1995 budget.
Since these expenditures relate to the 1996 financial year, they should have been charged to the 1996 budget.
The Court urges the Centre to draw up as soon as possible an updated inventory as required by Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 of 1 June 1976, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 of 30 June 1993.
The balance sheet shall show an outstanding amount of ECU 3 134 for an invoice issued in 1991 among outstanding claims from the previous financial year.
The Court's comment made last year5was not taken into account, although the Centre had given an assurance in its reply.
The Court recommends that the Centre write off this amount until there is reason to believe that this amount will be recovered.
At the end of the year, the Centre had a remaining cash equivalent of ECU 5.9 million.
The Centre is therefore responsible for managing large amounts of cash, although it has little expertise in this area.
The Court reiterates its observation made last year that this situation should be avoided by making the Centre more adaptable to the Commission's actual cash needs in the quarterly call-up of funds. - At the same time, the Commission should ensure that it receives a realistic liquidity forecast from the Centre before making its payments.
The Centre was transferred to Thessaloniki General comments ^B 31. At the European Council meeting on 29 October 1993 it was decided to transfer Cedefop's headquarters from Berlin to Thessaloniki in Greece.7
32. The actual transfer to Thessaloniki took place in August 1995 and in September 1995 the Centre began its activities in Greece.
According to the Court's calculations, the 1995 budget accounts contain some ECU 3 300 000 for the expenditure related to the move.
33. Since 1 September 1995, the Centre has been housed in a building of the Institute of Agriculture and Industry of Thessaloniki.
The Greek State will provide the Centre with a permanent accommodation facility from 1 September 1999 at the latest.
The Centre has signed four agreements—(i) Annual report of the Court for the financial year 1994.
(6) Court's annual report for 1994.
(7) Council Decision 93/C 323/01 of 29 October 1993, OJ C 323 of 30.11.1993, p. 1.
The basic agreement between Cedefop and the Greek State was signed in Thessaloniki on 22 June 1995.
The three other agreements, including an agreement between the Greek State and the organisation responsible for the whole construction, are part of this basic agreement.
Provisional accommodation 34. An annual rent of 273,000 ECU is payable directly to the owner for the provisional building of the Centre.
35. In accordance with Article 1 of the Agreement between the Greek State and the Centre, the Greek State shall make the building with the provisional premises, including all associated installations, available to Cedefop from 1 September 1995.
The Greek authorities are responsible for electrical and electronic cable connections and telephone connections.
36. At the handover of the building, the Centre did not raise any written objections.
However, during the first four months of Thessaloniki (September to December 1995), the Centre had to invest ECU 120 000 to make the temporary premises of the building workable.
Among other things, electronic and electrical cable connections and telephone connections had to be installed.
37. These investments were fully borne by the Centre and the corresponding costs were included in the 1995 budget.
The agreements do not clearly state who has to take over these investments.
The Greek State is obliged to provide the Centre with a permanent accommodation building by 1 September 1999 at the latest.
Cedefop will pay the Greek State a total amount of 6 879 750 ECU for the construction of the building, which will be paid in four equal instalments of 1 719 937 ECU each.
The first three instalments were fixed as payment dates for 1 September 1995, 1 September 1996 and 1 September 1997.
The final instalment shall be paid at the final handover of the building.
The Centre has not ensured that these payments are linked to the actual progress of the works.
The Centre will have paid ECU 5 159 811 more than two years before the building was handed over.
The Court recommends that the Centre should ensure that interest is used for the first tranche in favour of the Fund.
No C 81/6 EN 
Staff: General comments 42. The 1995 establishment plan provides for 79 posts, 24à,11LA,15B,26Cund3D.At the time of the audit (May 1996) 37 persons actually worked for Cedefop (14 A, 7 B, 14 C and 2 D), 11 had been taken over by other EU institutions, 14 had left the centre before moving to Thessaloniki and 17 had decided to stay in Berlin.
In 1995 and 1996, many new employees had to be recruited and this development will continue in 1996.
The 17 remaining persons in Berlin are free to work for public and private institutions or other EU institutions, with their salary remaining for a maximum period of 18 months, depending on their seniority at Cedefop (each service year is equivalent to one month's salary, the minimum service period must be 6 months).
At the end of this period, the parties concerned may either move to Thessaloniki or seek another solution.
This situation has led, among other things, to the fact that Cedefop cannot fill these 17 posts (May 1996), since they are blocked in the budget and cannot be filled, since the parties concerned may decide at a later stage to move to Thessaloniki.
44. It is unclear what is to happen to those of this group of 17 people who do not wish to move to Thessaloniki after the specified duration of their stay in Berlin.
Article 20 of the Staff Regulations provides that 'the official must take up residence in or at such distance from the place where he is employed and that he is not disabled in the performance of his duties'.
Independently of this, three cases of staff who were not ready to move to Thessaloniki have already been brought to the EU Court of Justice.
This situation, which blocked 17 important posts in the budget plan by staff who are not currently working for Cedefop, had a significant impact on the Centre's work back in 1995, and will continue to do so in 1996 and 1997.
Staff: Amendment of the status of 46. I n Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 of 10 February 1975, as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995, states: 'The staff of the Centre shall be subject to the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities.
The Centre shall exercise over its staff the powers conferred on the appointing authority.
The Management Board of the Centre shall, after consulting the Commission, lay down the relevant implementing rules."
Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 also repeals Council Regulation (ECSC, EEC, Euratom) No 1859/76 of 29 June 1976 laying down the conditions of employment for the staff of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training.
The amendment was necessary to "consistently manage the staff of the various decentralised bodies at Community level" (8).
While the Centre's staff have been appointed officials, the staff of the other decentralised bodies are temporary staff.
47. The Court has examined the changes in employment conditions and other agreements between the Board of Directors and staff, and has identified a number of irregularities, the most serious irregularities from the Court's point of view being described in paragraphs 49-66.
The Management Board has not submitted these agreements to the Financial Controller for approval.
Nevertheless, all the appropriations resulting from these agreements were processed through the paying agency procedure and subsequently received the financial controller's endorsement.
The Centre has taken the following measures to adapt the situation of its staff to the situation of officials 49. Im connection with the move to Thessaloeniki: — a first step was taken on 1 March 1995 to appoint all staff members as temporary staff (Article 2(b) of the Conditions of Employment of Other European Community Staff), in the same grade and grade as as contract staff. — a second step, these staff were recruited as EU officials from 1 April 1995, by means of an internal selection procedure, which had been ‘ar'd exclusively on the basis of qualifications.
Infringement of the Staff Regulations relating to the classification of seniority in the initial appointment of Cedefop's former contract staff at present, see page 50. In the initial appointment of Cedefop's contract staff to temporary staff on 1 March 1995, none of the staff should have been classified as senior to tier 3 (or step 4 to grade A 1 (8) Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 amending Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 establishing Cedefop, recital 4).
(See Article 32 of the Staff Regulations, which are applicable to temporary staff in accordance with Article 15 of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants).
51. Nevertheless, 33 of the 59 temporary staff appointed to Cedefop were classified as higher than level 3.
The Centre published 15 linked job offers and announcements of internal competitions on 1 March 1995.
The following are the main points of the selection procedure: the selection procedure for the selection of candidates is designed to ensure that there are more than one candidates to fill the vacancy with the best qualified candidate (Article 27(1) of the Staff Regulations).
The Commission has therefore decided to initiate a procedure for selecting the products concerned, which is therefore by definition linked to a competitive situation and the risk of non-existence (10).
This means that appointment decisions following a selection procedure involving misuse of discretion are to be considered illegal ( n ).
The Commission's legal service came to the same conclusion as its memo of 4 January 1995 (c) (12).
57. Since the selection procedures concerned have been pursued with a different objective than that set out in the Staff Regulations, it is reasonable to assume that the selection procedures carried out by Cedefop have been subject to abuse of discretion and therefore are to be considered unlawful.
Infringement of the Staff Regulations relating to the classification of posts in the grade when appointing Cedefop's former contract staff as officials 58. Under Article 31 of the Staff Regulations, Cedefop staff should have been appointed as officials from 1 April 1995 as follows: — officials in category A or special course language service (LA): in the initial grade of their category or special course (i.e. A 7 or LA 7) (Article 31, paragraph 1); — officials in other categories: in the entry grade class corresponding to the post for which they were recruited (i.e. Β 1, Β 3 or Β 5; C 1, C 3 or C 5, D 1, D 3 or D 4); — in the case of up to half of the appointments, except for the second grade, the staff members may be appointed in the next grade group; this applies to six posts to be filled within each grade group (Article 31, paragraph 2b).
59. Contrary to the provisions of the Staff Regulations, 32 out of 43 staff were appointed in a higher grade than the initial grade of their career (13).
10. Judgment of 29 September 1976, Case 105/75 GI UFFRI DA v COUNCIL, ECR p. 1395.
(12)A selection procedure involves, by definition, the risk of non-existence and there are obvious legal reasons why this risk margin should remain.
(13)Of 17 staff members appointed in category A, 13 were appointed in a higher grade than A7 (the Staff Regulations provide for a limitation to six appointments); all five LA's were appointed in a higher grade than LA 7 (the Staff Regulations do not provide for a similar option); of 18 staff members in category C, 12 were appointed in a higher grade than the initial grade of their career (the Staff Regulations provide for a limitation to six appointments); two out of three staff members in category D were appointed in a higher grade than in the initial grade of their career (the Staff Regulations do not provide for a corresponding possibility). ^^ 54. The selection procedure carried out by Cedefop, however, has a completely different purpose since, after moving to Thessaloniki, the situation of staff was regulated.
No C 81/8 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Failure to comply with the probationary period obligations 60. Before a member of staff can be appointed a permanent official, he must successfully complete a probationary period (Article 34 of the Staff Regulations) and, following the probationary period, an objective retrospective evaluation of the official must therefore be carried out on a probationary basis.
The probationary period was clearly described as necessary 'legal formality', which was not really to be regarded as a probationary test (paragraph 4.1 of the 'framework agreement'; letter of 7 February 1995 to the probationary officials, second subparagraph and paragraph 1(f) of the Annex: the probationary period is a legal formality which must be performed by each official on probation).
65. This means that a system has been established whereby up to 50% of the remuneration of staff is transferred to Thessaloniki in a currency to which a higher correction coefficient applies (namely the correction coefficient of 111.4 %) is applied to Germany (for Greece an adjustment coefficient of 80.2%).
The Commission has undertaken to introduce specific provisions on mobility in the framework of the Convention.
These provisions are contrary to the principle of equal treatment of all officials.
Article 13 of Council Regulation (EC) No 251/95 of 6 February 1995 clearly provides that the Staff Regulations and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants shall apply to the staff of the Centre.
This means that all the provisions contained therein shall apply to the staff of the Centre, including the subparagraph of Article 29(1), which concerns the taking over of officials by other institutions.
The Court's audit showed that the Centre's work programme was not carried out as planned due to a significant shortage of staff.
This led to large transfers and cancellations.
The audit also showed that no functioning management and accounting procedures have been established.
68. Two Deputy Directors received remuneration corresponding to the basic salary for four months, which was not in line with the financial management and the interests of the Centre, and a payment of ECU 71 030 to one of the Deputy Directors.
69. At the time of the Court's examination, there were 79 approved posts, but only 37 persons were actually employed at the Centre.
17 staff had been appointed to serve as EU officials,' although they had not wished to move to Thessaloniki or been taken over by another Community institution.
Conclusion 71. It is understandable that efforts were made to keep staff in the EU institutions and to reduce the complex problems associated with moving to Thessaloniki.
The problem, however, is that the regulatory framework, "within which the move had to be carried out, was not compatible with the proper treatment of senior staff, even after the changes to the employment arrangements, and did not allow Cedefop to move smoothly without a breakdown of its activities.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 21 November 1996.
No C 81/10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ............................................................................................................................
The Court of Auditors' annual accounts are published in the Official Journal of the European Communities, together with the accounts of the European Communities, the European Communities and the European Communities.
Budget 1995 (ECU 1 000) 1994 appropriations Payments 5 279 2 916 1912 0 10 107 Payments carried over 548 343 1255 10 2 156 PROPOSAL AT 31 DECEMBER 1995 9 060 Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Balance of the financial year Shortterm commitments 1. Compensation deductions 2. Other liabilities Revenue to be recovered Reusable amounts Transfers Appropriations to be carried forward Floating payments ·
TABLE 1 : BUDGET OF THE ORIGINAL BUDGET FOR 1995 (ECU) Personnel expenditure Operating expenditure Operational expenditure Not specifically earmarked Total carryovers from 1995 1 273 814 820 797 2 563 677 10 000 4 668 288 Percentage of carryovers original budget 16.7 20.6 52.9 100.0 28.3 In the period 1 January to 31.
Transfers disbursed in 1996 1 048 148 '500 982 873 883 0 2 423 013 Percentage of transfers used until 31.3.1996 82 61 34 0 52 Total (a)
The Management Board will follow the structure of the Court of Auditors' observations and conclusions.
The Management Board has the right to expect that all institutions and decentralised bodies will be treated in the same way and on the basis of the same technical standards and procedures which ensure equal treatment.
The Management Board considers that the uniform presentation of the problems does not contain any essential facts which could be summarised as follows: — The decision of the European Council of 29 October 1993 was taken without prior assessment of the effects of such a transfer.
At his first meeting with staff, he expressed his firm determination to move to 1 September 1995, a timetable which CEDEFOP maintained despite the problems caused by the transfer of the Centre. — The Chairman of the Board of Directors sent a letter to the Commissioners responsible, Mr van Miert and Mr Ruberti.
On 18 November 1994, the Chairman and Vice-Chairmen of the Management Board of CEDEFOP were received by the members of the Commission.
The Chairman urged the Commission to draw up social measures, in particular for those staff who were unable to leave Berlin.
In the light of the regulations in force, the Commissioners stated that they were prepared to examine the specific problems of some staff in a positive and pragmatic spirit.
They also expected this from the other Community institutions (European Parliament, Council, etc.) — The 'Administrative Council was unable to decide on the date of the transfer at its meeting on 8 and 9 December 1994 because it did not appear acceptable to lay off staff who could not move to Thessaloniki without simply dismissing a modern social plan.
At the same meeting the Management Board instructed the Director to prepare a decision on the Management Council (which should be taken at an extraordinary meeting on 27 January 1995) which provided for a socially acceptable transfer of the Centre to 1 September. "— In the second half of December 1994, the Council began to examine the Commission's proposal to amend Article 13 of the Regulation in force for CEDEFOP, which provided that the staff of the Centre were subject to regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities.
The Director adopted this amendment on the basis of the framework agreement on social support measures relating to the transfer of CEDEFOP to Thessaloniki.
On 23 January 1995, the framework agreement with the staff was signed.
The preparations were carried out in close cooperation with the European Commission, which proved to be very helpful throughout the transition period (1994-96). — The Management Board decided to accept the framework agreement and to move the Centre to Thessaloniki on 1 September 1995.
Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/13
Under the framework agreement, staff who could not leave Berlin decided to make themselves available to other EU institutions or public/privat organisations and to receive a salary from the Centre for at least six months, with a monthly salary paid for each year of service begun.
The principle of paying a monthly salary for each year of service is largely in line with the social plans and usual procedures in Germany and neighbouring countries. — Early retirement was considered in 1995 for 17 staff (aged over 55 years with 10 years of service and over 50 years with 15 years of service).
These measures were not part of the framework agreement and were not proposed by the Commission, following the decisions of the Council of Ministers of 17 November 1995 to accept the'release' of officials in connection with the accession of new Member States only to officials of the European Parliament.
The Management Board will respond in more detail in its opinions on points 46-66.
In general, it should be stressed that political aspects are to be taken seriously and that subsequent criticism must be avoided.
The transfer of a complete Community body within the restrictive framework of a large number of different regulations and given a considerable amount of social and individual problems is indeed unique in the history of the Community.
5. The Board of Directors will return below in this reply to the exception mentioned in the last sentence.
The costs of the meetings of the Management Board in 1995 are due to the fact that two additional meetings (in January and June) had to be held in connection with the transfer.
The meeting in December 1995 also cost more because of the official start of activity in Greece.
Only two meetings are planned for 1996.
The Management Board regrets that the Court did not respond to the European Parliament's decision to postpone discharge for the 1994 budget.
This raises serious questions as — the 1994 discharge in connection with the Court of Auditors' report for 1994 and the Council recommendation on granting discharge should be seen and be in line with the usual rules and procedures; — the European Parliament's assessment of the 1995 financial year without the Court of Auditors' report for 1995 on which the Management Board could have given its opinion would have led to the mixing of very different situations; — the Centre was transferred to Greece in 1995.
The transfer was carried out smoothly and under acceptable conditions.
This transfer requires a transitional period, which may not be completed until 1997, due to the disruptions to which the staff members were subjected.
The Commission has also been able to assess the impact of the measures on the environment.
In the early phase in Thessaloniki, staff helped each other to carry out the work.
16. As was pointed out last year, the increased use of the paying agency procedure was made at the request of the financial controller, who justified this by the cost-benefit ratio.
The financial controller also had to take more action.
The use of the imprest account procedure for all expenditure which could require provisional commitments limited administrative costs and avoided delays.
The situation is even more difficult due to the payment arrangements in Greece (most payments are made in cash or by cheque).
Invoices indicating bank links are rare and contractors collect their own claims.
The geographical distance to the financial controller and the lack of reliability of the mail delivery must also be taken into account.
In addition, DHL express deliveries may only be made once a week for cost reasons (3 000 francs per shipment).
An amendment to the decision to set up the paying agency procedure will be submitted shortly to the Management Board in order to better take account of the Court of Auditors' wishes.
The transfers over the last two months are explained by the need for optimum use of the budget (of which ECU 2 000 000 were deferred and were only released shortly before the Centre was transferred to Thessaloniki) and by the decision of the Management Board (7/8-12/1995) to hire national experts seconded to the Commission (also to promote the Centre's work).
The Management Board was aware that 1995 and 1996 would be years of transition and renewal.
A certain reduction in productivity is inevitable in this international transfer, which the Board of Directors considers to have been carried out in an acceptable and smooth manner.
The Centre is still facing problems caused by the transition phase.
20. Since the centre was relocated with a greatly reduced number of employees, the work of the administration and all other services slowed down.
For this reason, a non-automatic transfer of appropriations was requested and approved.
No C 81/14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ........................................................................................................................................
This was an improvement in 1995 compared to 1994.
However, due to the long internal procedures (which involve the authorising authority, the financial controller and the accounting officer) and the length of the bank's credit transfer procedure, an overall delay in the processing period (on average 12 days in 1995) cannot be completely avoided.
Nevertheless, in 1995 three payments would have been made almost in accordance with the provisions of Article 26, as they arrived at the Centre less than four days after the end of the first two weeks of the quarter.
If the processing period had been equal to the average period of 12 days for all payments (which was between 9 and 22 days), then all payments would have been made in accordance with Article 26 of the Financial Regulation.
The first payment was not in line with the rules, but this payment must be preceded by the commitment of funds which will take some time.
23. The Deputy Director moved from Thessaloniki to Berlin because there was uncertainty about the actual date of the transfer of the Centre.
At the time of the appointment (1 October 1994) no decision had yet been taken on the date of the move (which could have been postponed even further).
It was hoped that his stay would be short, but his final duration was still unknown at that time.
For the usual family reasons, he moved to Berlin under the conditions of his status.
Daily allowances for missions were granted under the same procedure as for other staff.
As regards the second grant, the Deputy Director paid the Centre back this sum after the audit, although he would have been entitled to it.
24. At its meeting in June 1995, the Management Board announced its contract as at 31 December 1995 and instructed the Director to implement this Decision and to arrange for payments in accordance with the Staff Regulations.
The Management Board was pleased that the Deputy Director was prepared to participate in the implementation of the 1995 work programme and to support the Centre at its new start in Thessaloniki.
The compensation (payment of one third of the basic salary from the date on which his duty to serve expired until the expiry of his contract) was in accordance with his contract and Article 47 of the BBSB.
25. In view of the difficulties of the initial phase and the large number of new contracts, the Centre was not able to carry out the usual tendering procedures in each case.
In the case of longer-term contracts, tendering procedures are currently being implemented or planned for 1996.
In addition, in order to ensure balanced budgetary management during the year, the Management Board will prefer the adoption of the work programme so that the services can have the time needed for tenders and commit themselves and thus conclude the contracts in question during the first months of the financial year.
The 40 % of the commitments for the pilot studies and projects budget line (ECU 300 000) were made in the last months of the year, due to the late release of the appropriations in the 1995 budget by the budgetary authority and the transfer of the Centre to Thessaloniki.
The Centre had to act logically and consistently, leaving it no choice, since it had to meet its financial obligations under Titles I and II and could only make further commitments under Title III after the funds had been decommitted.
The possibility of seconding national experts was granted by the Management Board at its meeting in December 1995 and could only be financed by the resources allocated.
The Director had to act quickly and within a short period of time to prevent funds (which became available very late) from falling.
The application of the (Austrian) expert (who was officially supported by the government) was already available in early 1995.
27. The reason for recording the rent for January 1996 in the 1995 financial statements was purely practical.
The contract stipulates that the rent must be paid in advance in two instalments on 1 January and 1 July.
Since the first payment was only made in October 1995 and it would have been difficult to pay immediately again on 1 January 1996, the first payment was made for a period of five months, including January 1996.
28. The inventory is being updated.
29. This will be complied with.
The Centre shall ensure that it submits to the Commission a realistic statement on cash flow.
The last payment in the year should be the largest, since it must also cover the first months of the following year, in which larger payments are normally to be made.
See comments on point 4. 32. The Centre's management shall assess the costs of the transfer and assess developments in order to gain a comprehensive picture of the costs and benefits of the transfer to Greece.
Official Journal of the European Communities No. C 81/15 36.-37.
Since it was expected that the Centre would resume its work immediately after the move, some additional investments and changes were needed.
As has been noted, the agreements do not provide any clear statement as the centre needed more power connections and stronger computer cables than the existing ones.
Other investments concerned additional security and communication requirements, such as Europe by Satellite, to receive broadcasts directly through the institutions.
The Centre has nevertheless put questions concerning the provisional building on the agenda of the Steering Committee, which will deal with the new and (if necessary) the provisional building.
The Board is aware that the content of the agreement on the new building was a major responsibility for the Greek Government, which is currently fulfilling the agreement.
Two points of particular concern are: — ensuring the provision of a high quality building at a reasonable price; — ensuring the timely completion of the building (if possible before 1 September 1998).
The fact that large payments were made in advance (half of the building has already been paid, although construction has not yet started) may also have positive effects, as the actual construction work (after selecting the building plan and the construction company in October/November 1996) could progress rapidly due to the immediate availability of the necessary funds.
In general, the Board of Directors fully understood the Court's concerns, which were shared by Members of the European Parliament, Mr Kellet-Bowmann and Mr Tappin, who visited the Centre on 1 and 2 May and 14 and 15 May respectively.
The Management Board is prepared to act on this issue in accordance with the Commission's recommendations.
The various social support measures made the staff situation very complicated, but all those on the CEDEFOP payroll who were not made available to other organisations or seconded to Berlin were working for CEDEFOP and its work programme.
43. The Management Board has taken the decision on the social accompanying measures relating to the transfer (framework agreement) in order to take "appropriate measures as soon as possible" (see the declarations in the Council minutes).
The evaluation of the measures must therefore take into account their political background.
The Centre is located in Thessaloniki and the Management Board and the Director decide on the organisation of the work.
I am sure that some of the items are blocked as long as the social measures are effective.
However, almost all the measures will expire at the end of 1996, and CEDEFOP will then be able to operate with full capacity on the basis of medium-term priorities (adopted by the Administrative Authority in November 1996) and the 1997 work programme, which will also be based on these priorities.
CEDEFOP will therefore be moving towards a revitalised and new approach from 1997.
44. Persons who cannot leave Berlin for social or personal reasons, when the fixed duration of their stay in Berlin ends, have three alternatives.
In this respect, the President of the Court of First Instance announced three decisions rejecting the requests for transitional proceedings.
Such persons must move, withdraw from the service of the Centre or find solutions to the Staff Regulations.
45. The impact in 1996 is of course serious, but will be minimal after the first months of 1997.
The transfer had its consequences and costs.
However, if they are compared with a similar transfer at national level, such as that of the Centre d'Etudes et de Recherches sur les Qualifications (CEREQ) from Paris to Marseille (where only 21 of the 120 employees moved to the Centre), then CEDEFOP has not had an overly negative impact on the international transfer of almost 2 000 km.
Precautionary cost estimates indicate that cost neutrality will be achieved in 2000 and that work will be even more cost-effective (mainly due to lower labour costs in Greece). 46.-66.
(b) However, it is not the failure of the Management Board to "consist of the regulatory framework within which the move was made [...] incompatible with the proper treatment of senior staff and did not allow for the smooth transfer of CEDEFOP". (c) Following the decision of the Management Board of 27 January 1995, on 6 February 1995 (Regulation (EC) No 251/95), the Council amended Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 to ensure that "the staff of the Centre is subject to the regulations and regulations applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities".
In spite of the absence of transitional provisions, as was the case when Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom, ECSC) No 269/68 was adopted (see Article 102 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities) was adopted, the Commission had to take account of the fact that the Council had not adopted the provisions of the Treaty on European Union.
(d) Since the Community legislation did not provide for transitional measures, the Board had no choice but to act on its own responsibility in order to safeguard the rights and interests of CEDEFOP staff. (e) It should be borne in mind that Regulation (EC) No 251/95, which transferred the seat of CEDEFOP from Berlin to Thessaloniki, meant a sudden change in the place of employment of the staff listed in the employment contracts: Berlin had been the only seat of CEDEFOP since 20 years and at no point since 10 February 1975 the slightest indication that this seat could be moved, even if it had been moved to another Member State far removed.
(f) In view of these circumstances, the Management Board had to: — provide staff with a high level of security in relation to their place of work (appointment to permanent officials), — ensure that their category, grade and step are respected, and — assist staff wishing to find another job. (g) The Management Board also wishes to point out that posts approved by the budgetary authority were permanent posts.
(h) In addition, the wording of Regulation (EC) No 251/95 (the staff of the Centre shall be subject to the regulations and arrangements applicable to officials and other servants of the European Communities) clearly provides for the employment of officials.
Since the positions filled by the staff are of a permanent nature, the decision on the status of officials was appropriate and justified instead of on-time contracts.
The Board of Directors also wishes to comment on the individual points raised by the Court: 46. (last sentence) The Board of Directors had the choice of appointing staff members either as life-long officials or offering them two-year contracts (see opinion (g) above).
It was considered unacceptable to require staff to move from Berlin to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year contract.
48. Although the Management Board has not officially submitted the agreements to the Financial Controller for approval, the latter has been informed of the decisions taken.
At the time of signing the agreement, the outstanding individual decisions of staff members did not yet determine the exact financial impact of the agreement.
It provided a framework that provided the basis for individual decisions and received full approval from the financial controller during his visit to Berlin.
50-51.
In view of the argument mentioned above (e), the decision taken (see remark, second indent) was the only possible one.
It also complied with the Commission's clear statement (see last sentence of the statement for the Council minutes in the annex) that 'there must be no deterioration in the conditions of employment of CEDEFOP's staff'.
The Commission's legal services, which are only partially quoted in paragraph 56, leave sufficient room for such a decision.
The Administrative Board reiterates that Article 29 of the Staff Regulations entitles the appointing authority to conduct internal competitions for the purpose of filling vacant posts in an institution (point lb).
The competitions were conducted in full compliance with Annex III to the Staff Regulations.
The Management Board had the objective and the duty to ensure that as many CEDEFOP staff as possible agreed to move to Thessaloniki.
It should not be forgotten that Regulation (EC) No 251/95 amended the rules applicable to staff with effect from 1 March 1995 and that the move to Thessaloniki took place in August of that year.
The management's approach was based on the following considerations: — it was unthinkable to require staff to move to Thessaloniki on the basis of a two-year contract (remark g) and paragraph 46 above); — there was not enough time to carry out a general selection procedure before moving to Thessaloniki, and it would not have been realistic to expect staff to move without a secure commitment to employment.
13. 3. 97 I EN   
The Commission has also proposed that the Council should adopt a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling of dangerous substances.
The Commission's Legal Service note, mentioned in paragraph 56, provides sufficient arguments under point (d) to justify the position adopted by the Centre.
All staff members who applied for appointment as life-long officials made the probationary period required by Article 34 of the Staff Regulations.
62. In accordance with note (f), 3rd indent, above, the Management Board considered it its duty to assist staff in an acceptable manner.
This view was also taken by the Commission's legal service.
65. The rules governing the transfer arrangements of part of the remuneration allow for the possibility of increasing this percentage from 35 to 50 % in individual cases where there are legitimate grounds under Article 4 of the Regulation.
The framework agreement allowed for a higher percentage of transfers (> 35 %' under the Staff Regulations, but < 50 %) in individual cases and for certain liabilities provided for in the Staff Regulations received before 29 October 1993 (the date on which the European Council decided to transfer the Centre).
The application of these rules is quite different in the case of CEDEFOP and concerns only a limited number of persons with high liabilities in Berlin.
66. The Management Board would like to thank the Commission for the support it has provided in a number of cases in the search for alternative employment opportunities for staff who were unable to move to Thessaloniki and for any other assistance it has provided to the Centre almost daily during the move.
68. See comments of the Management Board on paragraphs 23 and 24. 69.-70.
See in particular the general comments under points 46-66.
71. The Administrative Board regrets that the legislator has not introduced transitional legal provisions in Regulation (EC) No 251/95 to address the difficult staffing problems caused by the move to Thessaloniki.
In view of the lack of appropriate instruments, the Management Board was all the more obliged to provide its staff with the best possible support.
The Board of Directors believes that, in the present and truly unprecedented circumstances, it has acted in the only acceptable manner.
In the end, it was obvious that he had to make such an effort (as the Court acknowledges) because his duty as an employer is to carry out the international task of a complete institution in a socially acceptable manner.
The Board of Directors, the Director and the staff acted in this positive spirit, possibly taking some risks, but not having abused power, nor acting unlawfully.
No C 81/18 1 EN   
• FINANCIAL PROCEEDINGS OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR IMPROVING THE LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1995 1. This report shall be submitted to the Council and the European Parliament in accordance with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (OJ No L 347, 31.12.1975, p.
The Court examined the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year ending 31 December 1995.
In accordance with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (OJ L 347, 31.12.1993, p.
16) the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
This is in accordance with Articles 52, 54 and 55 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (OJ L 347, 31.12.1993, p.
26) amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (OJ L 347, 31.12.1976, p.
The Court of Auditors is required to examine these financial statements in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The Court held that the Court had carried out its audit in accordance with the generally accepted audit standards in so far as they were applicable to the Community context and accordingly carried out audits of the accounts and applied other audit procedures which it considered necessary in this context. 4. The Court considered that the financial statements for the accounts on 3 January 1995 were not in conformity with the rules laid down by the Court of Justice.
The Commission has set up a financial year ending on December 1, 1995, and has the task of "helping to design and create better living and working conditions through action to promote and disseminate knowledge capable of supporting this development".
The Dublin Foundation began its activities in 1976.
The Court of Auditors has examined the annual accounts and the financial management of the Dublin Foundation in accordance with the relevant regulations (2).
Financial data 7. For the 1995 financial year, the Foundation has had a budget of ECU 12.5 million.
The commitments entered into resulted in payments of ECU 9.3 million and transfers to the 1996 financial year of ECU 3 million, with the remainder of ECU 0.2 million cancelled.
Of the appropriations carried over from the previous year, 1.9 million ECU was disbursed and 0.2 million ECU cancelled.
Annex 3 to this report contains an analysis, broken down by title, of the use of appropriations for the financial year and of the appropriations carried over from 1994.
Follow-up to previous observations Division of duties 8. The Court repeats its earlier comments that the duties of the authorising officer and the accounting officer are not sufficiently separate.
This is contrary to Article 15 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, which states that the principle of ‘separation of powers of authorising officer and accounting officer' is applicable and that ‘the activities of authorising officer, financial controller and accounting officer are [...] incompatible'.
Paying agency 9. A large part (1995: 5 9%, without salaries) of payments will continue without prior approval by a financial controller.
The extent to which the paying agency is used is not in accordance with the financial rules.
It would be more acceptable if only (2) Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 on the establishment of the Foundation (OJ No L 347, 31.12.1975, p.
OJ L 139, 30.5.1975), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 347, 31.12.1993, p.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976 on financial provisions applicable to the Foundation (OJ L 347, 31.12.1976, p.
OJ L 164, 24.6.1976), as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 347, 31.12.1993, p.
No C 81/20 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 current or minor expenditure, where the risk of irregularities is relatively low, should be handled through the paying agency.The Foundation should define in writing, in consultation with the financial controller, what is meant by current and smaller expenditure.
Transfers from title to title 10. The Foundation continued to carry over from title to title in 1995 (see paragraph 16).
This is in breach of Article 21 of Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of the 1 494 000 ECU (11.9% of the budget) and of the ECU 756000 (6.5%) in 1994.
The Foundation was able to transfer commitments to the following financial year by means of transfers of ECU 500 000 from Title 1 (Personnel) to Title 3 (operational expenditure) which would otherwise have been cancelled in accordance with Article 6(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76.
As noted in paragraph 10 above, the Court considers that such transfers from title to title are contrary to the financial rules.
17. As Annex 3 shows, the total payment rate for the payment of appropriations is 75 %, while the payment rate for Title 3 ‘Operational expenditure' is 54 %.
Table 1 shows the transfers from the 1995 budget and their subsequent use in 1996 broken down by title.
The transfers under Title 3 amounted to 45 % of the original appropriations.
By the end of March 1996, only 20% of the transfers had been used.
Revenue 18. The EU grant to the Foundation was ECU 12.5 million in 1995.
The amounts actually requested and received amounted to ECU 2.5 million as at 26 April 1995, ECU 2 million as at 14 June 1995, ECU 4.3 million as at 12 October 1995 and ECU 1.3 million as at 31 December 1995.
The difference of ECU 2.4 million was in line with the unnecessarily cash resources not called to the Commission in accordance with the Court's recommendation of the previous year.
As in previous years, this type of financing is not compatible with Article 26 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93, which provides that the grant is to be paid in the first half of each quarter.
Expenditure 19. Article 63 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976 provides that contracts worth more than ECU 12 000 must be awarded following a tendering procedure.
The following exceptions were found: — a contract worth ECU 533 072 for the implementation of a Europe-wide survey on working conditions was awarded by hand. — a sample of 26 contracts selected for examination was six contracts based on Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of 1 June 1976, Council as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93.
The Commission has decided to grant a loan of ECU 2 million to the European Investment Bank for the financing of the operation of the Bank of Greece in the form of a loan from the Bank of Greece to the Bank of Greece for the financing of projects in the form of loans for the financing of small and medium-scale ventures in the form of loans from the Bank of Greece.
The Commission has also proposed that the Council should adopt a decision on the implementation of the budget.
In one case, the accounts for November and December 1994 were taken into account in the commitment of the 1995 budget, although the framework agreement between the Foundation and the contractor only began on 1 January 1995.
In a sample of 10 study contracts drawn for the examination, the final reports were received for five contracts only months after the deadline laid down in the contract.
The Court found that the documents had been modified by means of correction fluid: — the date of an invoice of DM 45 365 (23 817 ECU) faxed to the financial controller was overwritten by correction fluid and changed by hand from 17 January 1995 to 17 December 1994.
The financial controller gave his endorsement on the basis of this fax and the change in the date of the transfer led to the accounting for the 1994 transfers and not the 1995 appropriations. — The amount in a recovery order was rewritten with the correction of the deficit and changed by hand from ECU 1 680.16 to ECU 4 741.97.
It is not clear what the financial controller's endorsement refers to.
27. The examination of a sample of payments has caused problems in order management and inappropriate changes to important documents, see paragraphs 19-22.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 7 November 1996.
No. C 81/22 1 EN [ Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Assets 1994 Assets 1. Building 7106 2. Furniture 1 0 8 5 Current assets 1. Stocks 21 2. Amounts to be recovered 439 3. Mission expenses 8 4. Miscellaneous advances 1 5. Bank charges 6 Cash accounts 1. Bank account — Ecu 4488 — main account 131 — Paying account 104 - 1995 7106 1350 23 306 9 1 — 1520 190 245 Debts Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Balance of the financial year Shortterm liabilities 1. Salaries receivable Funds to be recovered Funds to be re-used Funds transferred Floating payments 1994 8 211 1 3 4 10 4 40 109 2 061 1214 13 389 (1 000 ECU) 1995'8 479 -2 040 18 306 224 3 012 751 10 750 ANNEX 1 REFERENCES TO 31 DECEMBER 1995 10 750 Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by the Dublin Foundation.
1 097 305 - 5 8 (1 000 ECU) 1995 10 143 165 39 10 347 5 185 28 833 177 3 320. 2 807 12 350 -2 003 147 -184 -2 040 EXPENDITURE Staff 1. Payments during the year 2. Transfers of appropriations Administrative expenditure 1. Payments during the year 2. Transfers of appropriations Operational expenditure 1. Payments during the year 2. Transfers of appropriations Outcome of the year (a) — (b) Difference in exchange rates and total exchange rate carried over from the previous year (b) Appropriations withdrawn Year 1344 Source: Court presentation based on data provided by the Dublin Foundation. '
Total (a) Balance for the year
No C 81/24 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Title 1. Personnel expenditure Final appropriation 5 316 1 0 5 0 6 174 Payments 5 185 (97.5) 833 (79.3) 3 320 (53.8) Transfers 28 (0.5) 177 (16.9) 2 807 (45.4) Cancellations 103 (2) 40 (3.8) 47 (0.8) 190 (1.5) Appropriations available 160 169 1732 2 061 Payments 131 (81.9) 141 (83.4) 1642 (94.8) 1914 (92.9) Cancellations 29 (18.1) 28 (16.6) 90 (5.2) 147 (7.1).
Current operating expenditure 3. Operational expenditure Total 3 012 (24) ANNEX 3 1995 BUDGET YEAR - USE OF AVAILABLE AFFAIRS 12 540 The figures in brackets correspond to the percentage of final or available appropriations.
Title 1 2 3 Transfers from the 1995 financial year 27 956 177 357 2 806 626 3 011 938 Transfers as % of initial budget As at 31.3.1996 Rate of utilization Transfers (%) Total 1995 budget (ECU 1 000) 1994 transfers 9 338 (74,5) TABLE 1 RESOURCES FROM THE ORIGINAL BUDGET FOR 1995 (ECU) 0.5 16.9 45.4 24. 27 134 97 67 932 38 504 720 18 599 786 20
The Foundation has introduced a series of measures to separate the tasks of the authorising officer and the accounting officer.
The Court of Auditors has taken note of these initiatives in previous reports.
The only problem that remains in practice is the procedure whereby the authorising officer records expenditure in the existing integrated accounting system.
This problem will be solved once the Foundation has acquired a new accounting system.
Following the consultations in 1995, the Foundation participated in a joint tendering procedure for the purchase of an appropriate accounting system in 1996 together with other EU agencies.
The result of this was, however, that none of the candidates met the requirements of the institutions 100%.
After close contacts with the Commission services, it is expected that the Foundation will acquire an appropriate accounting system from the Commission during 1997 after work on a system of this kind that meets the technical and legal requirements of the agencies has been completed recently.
The Foundation has established links with the Commission services with regard to solutions to the identified problem.
The Foundation has now been informed that this issue will be discussed between the Commission and the European Parliament in the context of the ongoing dialogue on the financial regulation of the agencies.
The Foundation asked the Commission services to clarify the Foundation's Financial Regulation as regards the transfers concerned, following the last report of the Court of Auditors.
The Foundation is now informed by the Directorate-General of DG XIX that the transfers have been carried out in accordance with the Foundation's Financial Regulation (see also paragraph 16).
11. All missions to the Foundation were documented and approved by the authorising officer after he had verified that he was in conformity with the Foundation's work programme or administrative requirements.
The Foundation will review its procedures for recording and identifying the necessary documentation on missions.
The Regulation establishing the Foundation requires that the European institutions be consulted and that the social partners be involved in their work.
While in recent years there has been a deepening of the exchange of FOUNDATION with the EU bodies concerned in Brussels, the number of missions to Brussels has not increased.
No missions are made when other means of communication can be used.
Where possible, telephone, Internet, e-mail and other electronic tools will be used. In November 1995 a videoconferencing pilot project was also launched.
Experiments with com-puter conferences have also been conducted.
14. On the basis of a proposal submitted by the Irish authorities, lawyers are currently preparing a revised lease.
16. As stated in paragraph 10 above, the Foundation has been informed by the Commission that the transfers in question are fully in line with the Financial Regulation, and with its assistance the Foundation has been able to use the resources made available to it by the decisions of the budgetary authorities in the most efficient way.
However, the Foundation appreciates the position of the Court of Auditors and Parliament and is committed to carry out such transfers only in urgent cases.
These contracts mainly concerned studies with implementation periods of 12 months or more.
The Foundation will remind the Commission services that the payments of grants must be made by the 15th of each quarter.
19. The Treaty establishing a European Research into Working Conditions shows that the Treaty was concluded between the European Commission and INRA (Europe) under the framework contract for the Eurobarometer-Stan-dard drawn up on the basis of an open tendering procedure.
The award of contracts was entirely in line with the procedure laid down in Article 46 of the Foundation's Financial Regulation and the criteria to be followed in this respect.
Only one supplier had the required software and the special multi-sprac-big tastatures and provided local support: the other two contracts refer to research proposals.
The Foundation's Administrative Council, at its meeting on 25 March 1994, approved the introduction of new procedures, which should be fully operational during 1995, for contracts based on calls for expressions of interest published in the Official Journal and for tenders.
The two contracts were concluded during the transitional phase established by the Management Board.
20. The Foundation operates a decentralised ordering system.
The two invoices were part of a series of orders placed by an operational unit whose total orders exceeded the committed appropriations.
Appropriate measures will be taken to prevent this from recuring.
The provision of a new accounting system should ensure the automatic implementation of the necessary controls.
The programme management programme will monitor the implementation of the study contracts on a monthly basis.
22. The appointment was given to the departments concerned on 11 October 1994.
The change in the date on the invoice itself had no effect on the transfers.
Nevertheless, the official concerned was reprimanded.
Any necessary manual corrections will be signed and dated in the future.
13.3.97. [DE Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/27 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA-London), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/03) (period from 1 September 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1.
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in accordance with Article 57(10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (a). 1.2.
The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the 1994 and 1995 financial years.
In accordance with Article 57(7) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director.
The Court of Auditors shall be required to examine the accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This is a report on the Agency's first audit..1.3.
The main comments resulting from the Court's audit are set out in Part Two of this report. 1.4. The financial statements for 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are ensured overall.
OJ L 347, 31.12.1990.
18. (2) In accordance with the provisions of Article 57(9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, the accounts for all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up by 31 March 1996, OJ L 214 of 24. 8. 1993, p.
This accounting was received by the Court on 9 April 1996.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the 1994 and 1995 financial years
During the 1995 financial year, the Agency recovered the Commission's grant (ECU 10.1 million) without issuing the corresponding recovery orders.
Accounting for budgetary operations 1.6.
Until August 1995, there was no journal on commitments and payments for this financial year.
At the end of the year, the Agency established a accounting system.
The Court noted that this system allowed for subsequent changes in bookings without any obvious recognition.
In the absence of commitments, the appropriations available (in breach of Articles 29, 35 and 36 of the Agency's financial regulation) were exceeded, although the Administrative Director submitted an amending budget approved by the Management Board (transfers of appropriations from chapter to chapter).
By August 1995, the Agency has settled all payments through a paying agency.
This additional use of the paying agency procedure is contrary to Article 45 of the Agency's financial regulation, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure. 1.8.
The Agency has also begun to settle these expenditures only in September 1995.
At the end of the financial year on 31 December 1995, some 937 000 ECU had to be settled.
General bill 1.9.
The accounts and budget accounts were not made until September and December 1995 because of the payment agency's handling.
This is contrary to accounting practices.
No C 81/28 
Total liabilities Total liabilities Subtotal Shortterm 1. Salaries 2. Miscellaneous creditors 1. 2. 3. Re-use of fees payable later (Art. 23 of the RF)
1994 •6 800 13 6 813 413 226 2 568 3 618 5 6 830 -17 -17 (1 000 ECU) 1995 10 150 299 3 210 13 659 3 594 243 3 039 5 660 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551
13. 3. 97 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/31 REPLY OF THE EMEA 1.6.
The commercial accounting systems available on the market do not take into account the specificities of Community financial rules.
For this reason, in 1995 the agencies published a call for tenders for a system that is appropriate to their needs.
Until the introduction of the new system, the Agency will work with a spreadsheet system.
This system may make subsequent changes to the accounts without being able to understand them in the accounts of the budgetary operations.
However, these changes are to be found in the general accounts.
All budgetary operations are documented in the case.
During the initial period, until the appointment of the financial controller in the house, a paying agency was essential for the proper functioning of the Agency.
Only in this way could the decision of the Member States on the establishment of the Agency be implemented rapidly.
The entry into service of the financial controller reduced the use of the paying agency and closed at the end of July 1995.
75 % of the payments made by the paying agency were settled on December 1, 1995.
Even if a large amount could not be settled until 1996, the Agency achieved a satisfactory final result and did its best in difficult circumstances.
This report is submitted to the Committee on Budgets of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market, in accordance with Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 (*). 1.2.
The Court examined the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market for the 1994 and 1995 financial years.
In accordance with Article 119(2)(c) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office.
Whereas, pursuant to Article 137 of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the latter is also responsible for drawing up and presenting the accounts (3), in accordance with internal rules of financial management; whereas the Court of Auditors is required to examine the accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community;
This is a report on the Office's first audit. 1.3.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the Office for Harmonization in the Internal Market for the 1994 and 1995 financial years Commission grant 1.5.
During the 1995 financial year, the Office only paid ECU 6.8 million (68 %) of the grant granted.
OJ L 11, 14.1.1994, p. 33.
(3) In accordance with Article 137(1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts of all the Office's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 29 March 1996, signed by the President of the Office and forwarded to the Commission, the Committee on Budgets and the Court of Auditors.
This accounting was received by the Court on 2 April 1996.
The tables in the Annex to this report shall reflect these financial statements in a shortened form.
The Court considers that the Office should have issued a recovery order for the entire budget (ECU 10.1 million) in order to be able to meet the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 4.6 million).
During the 1995 financial year, the Office established a system of accounting.
This is contrary to the internal financial regulation (Articles 4(1) and 29(1)).
Transfers and transfers 1.7.
The appropriations carried over to 1996 represent 46% of the budget and relate primarily to computer equipment (Titles II and III of the budget).
The appropriations available were also transferred from Title I (staff) to Title II (technical expenditure) totalling ECU 2,529 million (25 % of the budget).
The inventory is kept only in quantity but not in value.
It is therefore not possible to coordinate with the amounts shown in the Office's balance sheet.
The administrative system established by the Office does not guarantee adequate separation of duties and proper implementation of the provisions relating to revenue, commitments and payments (authorising officer, financial controller and accounting officer).
The office is currently housed in a building of the Spanish government.
However, there is no contract for the use of this building.
In order to provide its final seat in the future, the Office should clarify the need for the accommodation of its services.
13.3.97 I DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/33 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 26 September 1996.
TABLE 1 - SUMMARY OF INVESTMENT AT 31 DECEMBER 1995 '2 17 1 4 2 7 194 3 469 1487 15 3 275 1 879 6127 Total liabilities 1487 6 127 169
No C 81/36 p 5 ̄ Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 REPLY OF THE OFFICES Commission's grant 1.5.
The need for a recovery order was not known to the Commission or to OHIM.
OHIM has taken note of this observation by the Court of Auditors and has led to the immediate issue of a recovery order for the 1996 financial year, covering the total amount of the grant less the provisions.
Accounting for budgetary operations 1.6. It is true that the accounting system currently used by OHIM allows subsequent changes in the accounts.
For the period up to the introduction of the Sincom2 system developed by the Commission, OHIM has made organisational arrangements for additional security guarantees for the use of the current system.
Until then, OHIM has no other option but to wait for the Commission's accounting system, which is likely to be available before the end of the year, because the development of such a system means a large financial burden which an office cannot bear on its own.
In 1995, the Office's budget was adopted, taking into account a provision of ECU 2 million requested by Parliament for an overall budget of ECU 10.1 million.
The provision was cancelled in two stages: — ECU 1 million in October 1995, — the balance in November 1995.
The temporary blocking of funds has naturally had an impact on their use, particularly in the case of the appropriations under Title I (staff), since there was uncertainty as to whether the provisions would be effectively repealed.
OHIM could not, under any circumstances, engage in recruiting staff until the payment of salaries was guaranteed by the end of the financial year.
After the provisions were released, measures were taken to use the appropriations released, in the budget lines where the deadlines for the commitment procedures still made it possible and where there was real need.
For this reason, the Office requested a transfer from Title I to Title II, in order to create mainly computer material which was particularly needed during the initial phase of the Office.
It should be recalled that OHIM began its activities on 1 April 1996 and that more than 30 000 applications for trade marks have been received since then, while the work had been estimated at 15 000 applications for the whole financial year.
Inventory 1.8. At the time of the Court's audit, OHIM had only just received the software for computerised management of the inventory from the Commission, which was just installed.
Division of tasks 1.9.
A question to the Court of Auditors made it clear that this item concerns the order of signatures to be followed in the procedure for commitment and payment.
It is therefore not a mistake as to the duties of the authorising officer, the accounting officer and the financial controller.
The main point was that the operation was first signed by the accounting officer and then by the authorising officer. · This procedure had the advantage that, in the initial phase of the Office, when there was no fund manager, it was ensured that the funds were available before a transaction was signed by the authorising officer.
Fixed assets 1.10.
There is an agreement (see copy in Annex) between the Minister of Industry of the Spanish Government
The Spanish authorities are making available to the Office free of charge a building (temporary seat) on the basis of this Agreement, the building in which the Office is currently located.
The agreement states that the Spanish Government will take measures to provide the Office with a permanent seat.
The decision on the site and the specifications for the tendering procedure for the building to be built was taken by the Spanish authorities on 3 July 1996.
This specification shall be published on 30 July of this year in the Official Journal of the European Communities (S series — Calls for Tenders).
Following these recent developments, the Office will take the necessary steps without delay.
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Training Foundation in accordance with Article 11(4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 of 7 May 1990 0.
The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Training Foundation for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 11(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Director.
Whereas, pursuant to Article 11 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the latter is also responsible for drawing up and presenting the accounts (2), and must comply with internal financial rules; whereas the Court of Auditors is required to examine the accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community;
This is a report on the Foundation's first audit.
The Court has carried out its audit in accordance with the generally accepted audit standards, insofar as they apply to the Community context.
It has carried out audits of the accounts and applied other audit procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The main comments resulting from the Court's examination are set out in the second part of this report.
(2) In accordance with Article 11(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90, the accounts of all the Foundation's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up by 31 March 1996, signed by the Director of the Foundation and forwarded to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
The tables in the annex to this report show these financial statements in a shortened form.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Training Foundation for the 1994 and 1995 financial years Accounting for budgetary operations 1.5.
This system and the systematic implementation through the paying agency may lead to overruns.
Paying Agency 1.6.
The Foundation has settled all payments through a paying agency in 1995.
This is not compatible with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation for the Foundation, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure.
The accounting for these expenditure was also delayed as the relevant documents had to be sent to the financial controller to be endorsed in Brussels.
The Foundation has allocated several ECU 0.4 million to use the funds still available at the end of the financial year.
However, it has failed to comply with the procurement rules, in particular with regard to price or performance competition (Articles 45 to 51 of the financial regulation for the Foundation).
Financial controller 1.8.
In view of the current situation, the Foundation's internal control system could be improved by allocating to it a Commission financial controller on-site.
13.3.97 I DE 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/39 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 10 October 1996.
No C 81/40 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Assets Fixed assets 1. Fixed assets 2. Materials and furniture Operating assets 1. Office equipment Subtotal Realizable values 1. VAT to be collected 2. Grant to be recovered from 1994 0 • 35 0 35 0 0 0 0 1995 0 568 0 568 0 543 24 5 6 7.
3 398 Liabilities Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Result to be transferred Subtotal Appropriations transferred 1. Non-automatic 1994 35 184 219 319 2 481 2 800 72 63 135 11 3 165 (1 000 ECU) 1995 568 1566 2 134 142 1985 2 127 77 0 77 195 4 533 Commission 3. V disbursements 1. Bank accounts debtors Subtotal V liabilities TABLE 1 SUPPLY RATE AT 31 DECEMBER 1995 Assets total Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by the Foundation. * Transfers Automatic transfers 3 130.3 165 Subtotal liabilities total 4 533 2. Short-term 1. Salaries 2. Personnel Α V custody accounts Subtotal
No C 81/42  
Accounting - The Foundation shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
The latter has also played a crucial role in the introduction of a uniform system for the management of the budget and the accounting system in all departments.
Discussions are currently being held with the Commission's responsible departments, which will enable us to overcome all the concerns expressed by the Court of Auditors by introducing a new system for the management of the budget, which will enter into force on 1 January 1997.
It should be stressed that none of the amounts allocated had been exceeded over the period under review.
1.6. Management of advances It must be stressed that the advances had not been used for all purchases of equipment or for the participation in real estate, which represented a significant part of the budget.
The use of the general advance payments has also been reduced in accordance with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation and all accounting documents for a given month will be sent to the auditor in Brussels within the 10th and 20th of the following month.
Contracts On the one hand, the contracts under discussion, closely linked to the activities and projects of the Foundation's work programme, represent an extremely small proportion of the Foundation's activities, both in terms of number and budget.
On the other hand, it is true that the inclusion of the competition which led to these contracts was informal.
This procedure was chosen at the time mainly because of the urgency.
The contracts under discussion also had the task of organising conferences and seminars on behalf of and on behalf of the Foundation and under its strict control.
The budget was divided into two parts: the fixed part of the remuneration (under ECU 12 000) and the operational part, which was predetermined by the Foundation and remunerated on the basis of the supporting documents.
On the basis of these elements, the Foundation considered that the actual contract amount would not exceed ECU 12 000.
When it became clear at the beginning of 1996 that the Court of Auditors did not share this view, this system was abandoned.
Accountants The Foundation shares the opinion of the Court of Auditors.
This report shall be submitted to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in accordance with Article 13(4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990.1
The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 13(1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the budget was implemented under the reply of the Executive Director.
The Court of Auditors shall be required to examine the accounts in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The Court has carried out its audit in accordance with the generally accepted audit standards, insofar as they apply to the Community context.
It has carried out audits of the accounts and applied other audit procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The financial statements for 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are ensured overall.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the 1994 and 1995 financial years Commission grant 1.5.
During the 1995 financial year, the Agency has only part of the legislation contained in its budget.
(2) In accordance with Article 13(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts for all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1995 were drawn up on 20 June 1996, signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and forwarded to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
This accounting was received by the Court of Auditors on 29 June 1996.
The tables in the annex to this report show the financial statements in a shortened form.
The Court considers that the Agency should have issued a recovery order during the 1995 financial year for the remaining balance (ECU 5.8 million) in order to meet the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 7 million in total).
Titles I (staff expenditure) and II (technical expenditure) of the budget have identified several out-of-turns of some ECU 0.4 million.
This amount, which could not be entered in the 1995 budget, is entered on the assets side of the balance sheet in a depositary account and must be entered in the 1996 budget (in breach of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Agency's financial regulation).
Paying agency 1.7.
Almost all payments to be charged to Titles I and II of the budget were settled through a paying agency.
The use of this paying agency is not compatible with Article 43 of the Agency's financial regulation, since the imprest administrator was at that time both the accounting officer and the budget manager of some budget lines.
Furthermore, the deadlines for submitting supporting documents were not respected and the availability of committed appropriations for payments was not verified.
This seems to be the main reason for the above-mentioned excesses.
Transfers 1.8.
As at the end of 1994, a very large proportion of the available appropriations was carried over at the end of 1995 (7 million ECU — 57.2% of the total).
Most transfers concerned Title III (operational expenditure) (ECU 6.4 million — 90.3% of the appropriations entered in this Title).
A large part (ECU 1.8 million) of the ECU 8.5 million carried over from 1994 to 1995 had to be cancelled (21% of the carryovers).
No C 81/44 ιΕ" Official Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 97 Subsequent referral to the financial controller 1.9.
Several commitments totalling ECU 0.5 million were submitted to the financial controller after the end of the year.
In these cases, the financial control authority has refused to give its approval, which the Board of Directors has ignored.
The Court underlines the obligation to comply with the financial regulation, which requires that a prior application be made for a commitment to the budget for all measures which may result in expenditure (Article 27 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
The division of tasks was not respected in the administrative department of the Agency.
The lack of accounting staff meant that the same person was also accounting officer, administrator and manager/authorising officer of some budget lines.
Accounting systems 1.11.
Two systems are used for accounting on budgetary and general accounts, independent of each other, and not linked to each other.
The accounting system does not provide for any expenditure where the available or committed appropriations are exceeded.
Financial controller 1.12.
The Management Board has appointed the Commission's financial controller as the financial controller.
The Court considers it appropriate, on the basis of the Agency's current working methods, to assign it a financial control body, which was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxem burg on 28 October 1996.
13. 3. 97 I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/45 Assets Assets 1. Fixed assets 2. Material and furniture 1994 153 650 (ECU 1 000) 1995 Liabilities 1994 1995 Operating assets 1. Office assets 9 Subtotal 812'153 2 209 9 2 371 172 5 740 32 5 944 3 243 421 Permanent capital 1. Equity 2. Result to be transferred Subtotal Appropriations 1. Non-automatic carryovers 2. Automatic carryovers Subtotal 812 193 1005 1 5 8 2 6 932 8 514 3 - 240 9 762 2 371 1844 4 215 989 5 997 6 986 0 778 11979 Realizable values 1. VAT to be collected 2. Amount of the 75 850 Commission 3. V to be recovered accounts 1. Bank accounts V to be held Accounts 1. Expenditure to be recorded Debtors Subtotal 925 TABLE 1 TO BE RECEIVED AS AT 31 DECEMBER 1995 Total assets Source: Presentation of the Court on the basis of the information provided by the Agency.
Total liabilities 0 8 025 Short-term 1. Salaries deductions 0 9 762 Deposit accounts 11979 V Liabilities
1994 9 312 850 58 10 220 574 1 0 0 7 (1 000 ECU) 1995 6 219 5 740 362 12 321 2 896 202 1488 320 637 6 465 32 421 0 12 461 
• The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994.
A first budget of ECU 10.2 million was adopted on 31 October 1994.
Since the decision on the Agency's seat had been delayed, work had to be done at the beginning of the Agency's activities in a particularly rapid manner.
Projects were identified and committed before the end of the year thanks to a large amount of work, but for obvious reasons the implementation of commitments could hardly begin before the end of 1994.
In 1995, the Agency faced the difficult task of implementing not only the 1994 budget but also a new budget of ECU 10.5 million for 1995, before the regular staff of the Agency began their duties.
The Agency's vacancies were advertised in November 1994 and after a lengthy selection process with over 7 000 applications, the first selected candidates started their work in summer 1995.
In short, the Agency had an ambitious work programme and had practically two budgets, but had only a very limited number of staff to carry out this task.
Nevertheless, the work progressed and in 1995 major projects such as the Dobris Management Report and the revision of the 5th Environmental Action Plan were completed.
Five European thematic contact centres were set up and the EIONET was set up.
The Agency's regular staff increased by 1 person on 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary staff, such as national experts and auxiliary staff) and reached the level of 22 regular staff on 31 December 1995 who continued to serve 10 temporary staff.
The administrative machinery of the Agency has gradually been expanded, as the same open recruitment procedure has been applied.
Nevertheless, in 1995, the Agency was clearly not sufficiently equipped to cope with the procedural and financial aspects of the work.
As regards the financial side, only one person was available in the first half of the year to work on the financial, budgetary and contractual aspects of the work programme.
In June 1995, the Head of the Administration Department began his duties and only in early 1996 did the other staff for financial and contract matters come into play.
The Agency did its job, but some errors in the procedures were made in the area of finance and budget.
Overruns Some budget lines have been overrun.
This was because the Agency's budgetary control system did not function satisfactorily and because some payments were not recorded, as the Agency's financial department was clearly understaffed.
Consequently, the clearance of accounts resulted in a discrepancy between the accounting system and the payments actually made, which appeared to be an overdraft of certain budget lines.
Since no more set-off between different budget lines may be made after 1 January, these amounts must be included in the 1996 accounts, i.e. financed from the 1996 budget.
In 1996, expenditure and the appropriations available under Titles I and II (i.e. the 1995 problem points) were carefully monitored to avoid an expenditure surplus.
Unconformity (subsequent referral to the financial controller) A work programme was established during the Agency's development phase and its implementation started before the administrative procedures were clearly defined and an appropriate administrative structure was available to monitor compliance with the procedures.
In some cases, this led to work being commissioned and carried out, without any consideration of certain procedural rules.
In particular, work was commissioned without the financial controller's endorsement being obtained in Brussels, which is a prerequisite for this type of operational expenditure.
The error was purely procedural and was justified in the fact that work had to be done, but that the necessary administrative structures to ensure compliance with the rules laid down by Brussels had not yet been established.
A clear delegation of powers of instruction has been carried out and staff are informed of the procedural rules.
Separation of tasks As in all public institutions, certain functions of a financial nature should remain separate from the environmental agency.
One of the basic principles is that commitments and payment orders should not be made by the same person.
However, during the construction period of the Agency in Copenhagen, the staffing levels were so low that this principle could not be respected.
This fact is rightly criticised by the Court of Auditors.
In the case of the Environment Agency, the financial controller of the Agency and the Commission shall be the same person, established in Brussels.
This would significantly impede the Agency's work.
The way out of this dilemma is to set up a paying agency.
I m principle it works like a small cash reserve, although the amounts handled over it are quite significant.
Instead of obtaining the prior approval of financial control, the Agency orders payment and sends once a month the establishment of the procedures for subsequent approval of the financial control by the paying agency.
On the one hand, this will facilitate the work of the paying agency, but on the other hand, it will also be a two-part sword, since internal control of the agency and the financial department must be able to fulfil this additional responsibility.
The Court of Auditors' complaint is therefore understandable, but as long as the financial controller is based in Brussels, the Agency does not see any alternance as an extensive means of obtaining the payment authority. · For this reason, the Agency has taken a keen interest in the Court of Auditors' recommendation that the Agency's Commission should be able to provide a financial control body.The Environment Agency would welcome such a step.
Computerised accounting system The Court of Auditors stresses the need for the Agency to implement a modern accounting system covering both general accounting and budgetary control.
Such a computerised system is essential for the EU's complicated financial system if we are to avoid large-scale financial and budgetary commitments.
The Environment Agency is very much in favour of the Court of Auditors' conclusions.
Since the beginning of 1995, the Agency has repeatedly tried to find a solution to this problem.
It is in the same form for the other EU agencies.
In 1996, the agencies issued a joint call for proposals, but this was unsuccessful, i.e. no satisfactory system was found.
The Agency is currently considering the possibility of using the new Sincom 2 budgetary control system.
The plan provides for the timely installation and operational readiness of the budget to implement it in 1997.
But there will continue to be a soft spot for budgetary control and another for general accounting.
The payment agencies will not be integrated into the software either. The agency will continue to look for a suitable solution to these problems and will endeavour to coordinate this work with the other agencies.
13.3.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities No C 81/49 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA-Lisbon), together with the Centre's replies (97IC 81/07) (period from 1 November 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1 This report was submitted to the Management Board of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction pursuant to Article 11(11) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 of 8 February 1993 n. 1.2.
The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
In accordance with Article 11(8) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Director.
The latter is also responsible for drawing up and presenting the accounts in accordance with Article 11(10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (2), as amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 3294/94 of 22 December 1994 (3).
The Court of Auditors is required to examine this account in accordance with Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
This is a report on the first review of the Centre.
The Court has carried out its audit in accordance with the generally accepted audit standards, insofar as they apply to the Community context.
It has carried out checks on the accounts and applied other audit procedures deemed necessary in this context.
The financial statements for 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions is ensured overall.
Main comments on the implementation of the budget of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction for the 1994 and 1995 financial years Commission assistance 1.5.
In 1995, the Centre only issued a recovery order for 57% (3 million ECU) of the grant and recovered the corresponding funds.
The Court considers that the Centre should also have issued a recovery order for the ECU 2.3 million (ECU 5.3 million) shown in the balance sheet in order to meet the commitments carried over to the 1996 financial year (ECU 2.8 million).
Grant from the Portuguese Government 1.6.
An amount of ECU 614 015 (including interest) made available by the Portuguese Government to the Centre for the Establishment of the Centre for the Development of the Centre is not shown as revenue in the budget but only in the balance sheet.
Accounting for budgetary operations 1.7.
This may lead to overruns.
Paying agency 1.8.
During 1995, the Centre spent a large part of its expenditure (45%) on paying agencies.
The systematic use of the imprest account procedure is not compatible with Article 43 of the Financial Regulation for the Centre, which provides for this procedure only for certain types of expenditure.
The accounts for this expenditure were delayed, as the documents had to be sent to the financial controller in Brussels.
In 1995, substantial appropriations were carried over to 1996, i.e. ECU 2.8 million, representing 52% of the Centre's budget.
Some appropriations, which had been carried over from 1994 to 1995, had to be cancelled (ECU 4,607 million in total), i.e. 8 % of the appropriations carried over.
Division of tasks 1.10.
Financial controller 1.11.
The current situation would allow the internal control system to be improved by allocating a financial controller on the spot.
13. 3. 97 I EN  
Short-term 1. Salaries V liabilities Total liabilities
2350 145 609 6 104 706 135 868 431 1 2 5 3 170 5 563 541 35 864 1440 Result to be transferred Source: Court presentation based on data provided by the Centre. 157 4 608 4 765 35 · 35
The following remarks concern the Court of Auditors' most important observations on the implementation of the EMCDDA budget for 1994 and 1995 (points 1.5 to 1.11 of the Court's observations).
The EMCDDA shares the Court's view that it would have been more appropriate to issue a recovery order for all the appropriations entered in the balance sheet as a grant to the Commission and that the 1996 budget was managed accordingly. b)The Portuguese Government (point 1.6 of the Court's observations) The EMCDDA acted in accordance with the Commission's financial control rules (which is also the EMCDDA's financial controller). within the meaning of Article 54 of the Financial Regulation for the general budget of the European Communities and Article 82 of the Implementing Rules for the same (in accordance with the spirit of Article 142 of the Financial Regulation for the general budget of the European Communities) the EMCDDA initially used the payment account for the expenditure entered in Article 54 of the above-mentioned implementing provisions.
The EMCDDA is aware, however, that this can only be a provisional system (based on Excel) and that it needs a more efficient accounting system.
In this context, the decentralised agencies (including the EMCDDA) launched a call for proposals at the end of December 1995 under the coordination of the European Training Foundation in Turin with the aim of equipping themselves with an integrated, integrated, integrated system for general accounting and accounting.
No C 81/54   
The separation of the duties of authorising officer, financial controller and accounting officer as required by Article 16 of the OEDT Financial Rules for the tasks of authorising officer has been fully respected.
The EMCDDA is already working to ensure that the various tasks involved are separated.
In this context, it shall take into account, as far as possible, the requirements communicated by the Court of Auditors in defining their short-term staffing needs, in order to ensure that the administrative tasks referred to by the Court of Auditors (payment management, accounting, staff management and contracts) are carried out by different persons.
(g) Financial Controller (point 1.11 of the Court of Auditors' observations) The EMCDDA's Management Board opened a negative decision on the delegation of the tasks of the financial controller to an EMCDDA official when the EMCDDA's financial rules were adopted in June (in particular on the basis of the European Commission's objections).
Since the European Commission's financial controller is also the EMCDDA's financial controller, it would be up to the Commission to review the feasibility of the possible designation of a financial controller on the spot, taking into account the rules on this issue in the other decentralised agencies.
Price ECU 'L + C' Paper edition (*) 700 'L + C' Paper edition from 'Microfiche articles' (*) Γ) 595 
(32-2) 552 22 11 Fax (32-2) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan 202 B-1060 Bruxelles/Brussels Tél.
(32-2) 538 51 69 Fax (32-2) 538 08 41 E-mail: jean.de.lannoy@infoboard.be Librairie européenne/ Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat 244 B-10940 Bruxelles/Brussels Tél.
(32-2) 295 26 39 Fax 32-2) 735 08 60 DANMARK J. H. Schultz Information A/S Herstedvang 10-112 DK-2620 Albertslund Tlf.
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 GERMANY Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 78-80 Postfach 10 05 34 D-50667 Köln Tel.
(49)221)20 29)0 Fax 49)221)20 29 278 GREECE/ΕΑΑΔΑ G.C. Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR)105 64 Athens Tel.
(30)331 41 80/1/2/3 Fax (30) 323 98 21 E-mail: elebooks@netor.gr Γ.Κ. Ελευθερουδάκης AE Διεθνς Βιβλιοπωλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR-105 64 Αθςνα Τηλ.
30-31-41 80/1/2/3 Τ-λεφα- (30-31-98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellò, 37 E-28001 Madrid Tel.
(34) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (34) 575 39 98 E-mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: viiw.tsai.es/mprensa Boletin Oficial del Estado Trafalgar, 27-31 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 4-35 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel.
3531)661 31 11 Fax (353-3531 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 1-50125 Firenze Tel.
(39)55)64 54 15 Fax (39)55 64 12 57 E-mail: licosa@ftbcc.it URL: icl382.cilea.it/Virtual_Library/ biblioVvetrina/licosa/tt1.htm GRAND-DUCHÉ DE LUXEMBOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L-2411 Luxembourg Tél.
(352)40 10 20 Fax(352)490 661 E-mail: mdl@pt.lu Subscriptions: Messageries Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L-2339 Luxembourg Tél.
AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlags- and Universitätsbuchhandlung G mbh Siebenbrunnengasse 21 P.O. Box 1 A-10950 Vienna Tel.
(43)53 161 334/340 Fax (43) 53 161 339 E-mail: ausdelivery@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net:81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa Nacional,Casa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A Ρ-1050 Lisboa Codex Tel.
353 03 99 Fax (351) 353 02 94/384 01 32 Distribuidora de Livros Bertrand Ld.° Rua das Terras dos Vales, 4 A Apartado 60037 P的2701 Amadora Codex Tel.
(351-) 495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (351-) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlen Kirjakauppa / Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoiseplanadi 39/- Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN-00101 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel.
(358-)121 41 Fax (358-) 121 44 35 E-mail: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractor Trucks 11 PO Box 200 S-22100Lund Tel.
(46)18 00 00 Fax (46) 18 01 25 E-mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel.
(44-170)873 9090 Fax (44-1171) 873 8463 URL: www.tne-stationery-office.co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Blöndal Skólavördustig, 2 IS-101 Reykjavik Tel. (354)5515 650 Fax 354 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 Etterstad N-0606 Oslo Tel. (354) 5515 650 Fax 354 55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 Etterstad N-0606 Oslo Tel. (44-115) 873 9090 Fax (44-1171) 873 8463 URL: www.tne-stationery-office.co.uk
(47) 97 45 00 Fax 47) 22 97 45 45 SWITZERLAND/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH)8035 Zurich Tel.
(41)365 53 15 Fax (41) 365 54 11 E-mail: urs.leimbacher@ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKÂ REPUBLIC NIS CR 
(42) 24 22 94 33 Fax (42) 24 22 94 33 E-mail: nkposp@dec.nis.cz URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, GrivasDigenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY-1509 Nicosia Tel.
(357-) 44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (357-) 361 044 E-mail: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hàz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H的1396 Budapest 62 Tel.
(36)11 16061/11 16216 Fax (36) 302 50 35 E-mail: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LQA 05 Malta Tel.
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polena Krakowskie Przedmiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL-00-950 Warszawa Tel.
(48)26 12 01 Fax (48) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dùnya Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad.
No: 469 TR的80050 Tünel的Istanbul Tel.
(90-)2202251 91 96 (90-)224272 02 10 Fax (90-)2212251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europress-)Euromedia Ltd 59, Bid Vitosha AUSTRALIA Hunter Publications PO Box 404 3167 Abbotsford, Victoria Tel.
(61)9417 53 61 Fax (61) 9419 71 54 CANADA Uniquement subscriptions/ Subscriptions only: Renouf Publishing Co. Ltd 1294 Algoma Road K1B 3W8 Ottawa, Ontario Tel.
(1-613)741 73 33 Fax (1-613) 741 54 39 E-mail: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/-renouf EGYPT The Middle East Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel.
(81)3234 69 21 Fax (81)3234 69 15 E-mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi)japan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146Sandton Tel.
(27)883 37 37 Fax (27)883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611 
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) E-mail: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MÉXICO Mundi-Prensa Mexico, SA de CV RfoPânuco, 141 Delegation Cuauhtemoc ME-06500 México DF Tel.
(52) 553 56 58/60 Fax (52) 514 67 99 E-mail: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE CORÉE Kyowa Book Company 1 F1.
Phyung HwaBldg 4112-2 Hap Jeong Dong, Mapo Ku 121"220 Seoul Tél.
OTHER COUNTRIES Please contact a sales office of your choice E-38071 Madrid Tel. (34) 538 22 384 17 Fax (34) 538 23 384 17 URL: www.boe.es 95 (Libras)/ 15 (Suscripciones) 49 (Libros)/ 14 (Suscripciones) Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR-101000 Zagreb Tel.
(385-)43 03 92 Fax (385-) 44 40 59 ROMANIA Euromedia Str.
(40) 210 44 01/614 06 64 Fax 40-210 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technicka Knlznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO-81223 Bratislava 1 Tel.
(42) 53 18 364 Fax (42) 53 18 364 E-mail: europ@tbb1.sltk.stuba.sk SLOVENIA Gospodarski Vestnlk Zalozniska skupina d.d.
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 E-mail: allied ©gvestnik.si URL: www.gvesfnik.si ISRAEL R.O.Y. International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel.
(972-3)546 14 23 Fax (972-3) 546 14 42 E-mail: royil@netvision.net.il Sub-agent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel.
9 117312 Moscow Tel.(095)135 52 27 Fax (095) 135 52 27 Mundi Prensa Barcelona Conseil de Cent, 391 E-08009 Barcelona Tel.
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 1 of 5 Avis juridique important 31997Y0313(06) Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies Official Journal C 081, 13/03/1997 P. 0043 - 0048 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA-Copenhagen), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 81/06/) (For the period from 1 September 1994 to 31 December 1995) 1.1.
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency in agreement with Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (1).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in accord with the requirements of Article 13 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. His responsibility includes the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in agreement with the internal financial provisions set out in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
This report constitutes the first audit of the Agency.
The Court conducted its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are applicable in the Community context.
The Court carried out checks on the accounts and records and also applied search additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are presented in the second part of this report.
The financial statements for the financial years 1994 and 1995 are reliable and the underlying operations were carried out, on the whole, in agreement with the rules concerning legality and regularity.
Main observations concerning the implementation of the budget of the European Environment Agency for the financial years 1994 and 1995 The Commission subsidiary 1.5.
During the financial year 1995 the Agency used only part of the Commission subsidiary provided for in the general budget (ECU 12 million, of which ECU 6.2 million was drawn down).
It is the Court's opinion that the Agency should have issued a recovery order during the financial year 1995 for the balance remaining due (ECU 5,8 million) in order to meet the commitments that were carried over to the financial year 1996 (totaling ECU 7 million).
Spending in excess of available approaches 1.6.
Several cases of expenditure in excess of available appropriations, investing to approximate ECU 0.4 million altogether, were found under headings I (staff expenditure) and II (administrative expenditure) of the budget.
This http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997... 26/10/2010
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 2 of 5 amount, which could not be charged to the budget for 1995, was entered on the assets side of the balance sheet in a suspense account, and had to be charged to the budget for the financial year 1996 (contravention of Articles 5, 27, 29c and 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Imprest account 1.7.
Almost all payments charged to the budget under titles I and II were made via an imprest account.
The utilization of this account was not in agreement with Article 43 of the Agency's Financial Regulation, since the administrator of the imprest accounts was, at the time, both the Accounting and the Authorizing Officer for certain budget heads.
Furthermore, the deadlines for the submission of supporting documents were not met and the availability of approaches committed was not verified before payments were made.
This situation seems to be the principal cause of the cases of spending in excess of available approaches pointed out out above.
Approvals carried forward 1.8.
At the end of the financial year 1995, as was already the case at the end of the financial year 1994, the percentage of appropriations carried forward was very high in relation to the appropriations available (ECU 7 million - 57.2% of the total budget).
The majority of these carryovers concern title III (ECU 6.4 million, representing 90.3% of the appropriation under this title).
A large share (ECU 1.8 million) of the approvals carried over from 1994 to 1995, totalling ECU 8.5 million, had to be cancelled (21% of the approvals carried over).
A posteriori referral to the Financial Controller 1.9.
Several proposals for the commitment of funds totalling ECU 0.5 million were submitted, a posteriori, to the Financial Controller for his approval.
In these cases, the Financial Controller withheld his approval, but this refusal was overruled by the Management Board.
The Court wishes to emphasize the obligation to respect the Financial Regulation and to submit proposals for commitments in due form prior to 'any measure of a child which might lead to expenditure from the budget' (Article 27 of the Agency's Financial Regulation).
Separation of duties 1.10.
The separation of duties within the administration of the Agency has not been observed.
Due to a stage of staff in the financial accounting department, the same person was, at one and the same time, Accounting Officer, administrator of the imprest accounts and Authorizing Officer for certain budget heads.
Accounting systems 1.11.
The budgetary accounting and general accounting are carried out on two independent and unrelated computer systems.
The budgetary accounting system is, moreover, not programmed to refuse entries in the event of approvals available, or approvals committed, being exceeded.
The Financial Controller 1.12.
The Management Board approved the Commission's Financial Controller as their own Financial Controller.
The Court considers it would be advisable, in respect of the Agency's present mode of operation, to appoint a full-time Financial Controller for the Agency.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 28 October 1996. http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 3 of 5 For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President >TABLE> >TABLE> >TABLE> (1) OJ No L 120, 11.5.1990, p. 4.
(2) Contrary to the requirements of Article 13 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90, the accounts for all revenue and expenditure of the Agency in respect of the financial year 1995 were not prepared until 20 June 1996, the date on which the accounts were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and sent to the Commission, to the Board of Management and to the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 28 June 1996.
The abandoned version of these financial statements is presented in the tables annexed to this report.
THE AGENCY'S REPLIES The European Environment Agency was established in Copenhagen in mid-1994.
A first budget of ECU 10.2 million was adopted already on 31 October 1994.
Since the decision on where to locate the Agency had been delayed a fast start was needed.
Through a significant effect, projects could be identified and the budget committed before the end of the year, but for previous reasons the execution of the commitments could be started before the end of 1994.
Thus, in 1995 the Agency faced the daunting task of executing, not only the budget from 1994 but also a new budget for 1995 of ECU 10.5 million, and this before the regular staff of the Agency had taken up duty.
The vacant posts in the Agency were published in November 1994 and the selected candidates started coming on board in summer 1995 after a long selection procedure involving more than 7 000 applications.
In short, the Agency had an ambitious work program and virtually two budgets to execute, but very limited staff for the task.
Despite this, work went ahead and in 1995 the Agency finalized major projects, like the Dobris assessment, the review of the fifth environmental action plan.
Five European topic centres were established and the build-up of the EIONET advanced.
The build-up of the Agency progressed with regular staff increasing from 1 on 1 January 1995 (supported by 10 temporary staff, for example national experts and auxiliary staff) to 22 on 31 December 1995, still supported by 10 temporary staff.
The Agency's administration has progressively developed since the same open procedure to recruit was applied.
Nevertheless, it was clearly too understaffed in 1995 to handle the procedural and financial aspects of the work.
On the finance side only one person was available to handle the financial, budgetary and contractual aspects of the work programme during the first half of the year.
In June 1995 the Head of Administration took up duty, and only in the beginning of 1996 did the rest of the finance and contract staff come on board.
The Agency rose to the challenge, but some mistakes of a procedural nature were made in the areas of finance and budget.
Overspending There was overspending on some budget lines.
The reason was, on the one http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
26/10/2010
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 4 of 5 hand, that the Agency's budgetary monitoring system did not function in a satisfactory way and on the other hand some executed payments were not introduced due to the fact that the Agency was seriously understaffed in the finance department.
As a consequence, when the accounts were closed, the discontinuity between the accounts and the payments actually made, showed up as overspending on some budget lines.
Since no adjustment between budget lines can be made after 1 January, this has to be booked on the 1996 accounts, i.e. be financed from the 1996 budget.
In 1996 the expenses and the availability of approaches in titles I and II, which was where the problems occurred in 1995, were carefully monitored in order to avoid overspending.
Procedures overlooked (Saisine a posteriori) During the build-up of the Agency, a work program was established and started being executed before administrative procedures had been well established and an administration in place to monitor that procedures were followed.
In some cases this led to work being ordered and carried out without all the procedures being observed.
In particular, work was contracted without the Financial Controller in Brussels having given his visa which is a prerequisite for this kind of operational expenditure.
It was not a question of finances being wasted or that the finances were not there.
The make was procedural and reflected that work had to be done and the procedures to ensure that this was done according to Community rules were not yet in place.
Procedures are now in place to avoid similar problems.
A clear delegation of authorizing powers have been established and staff informed of the rules.
Separation of functions In the financial framework of the Agency, as is the case in all public institutions, certain functions should be kept separate.
A basic principle is that the same person should not commit money and order payment.
However, during the period of establishment of the Agency in Copenhagen the number of staff in the Agency was so small that it was not possible to observe this principal.
This is legally criticalized by the Court of Auditors.
However, once the staffing of the Agency started to increase this was corrected and these functions have been rigorously separated in the Agency since 1995.
Extensive use of imprest accounts The normal procedure forcommitting and ordering payments in the EU system is to have prior approval by the Financial Controller in practice all cases.
In the case of the Agency, the Agency Financial Controller is the same as the Commission's and located in Brussels.
To send all financial transactions to Brussels for approval before they could actually be executed would be an excessively tiresome procedure.
It would seriously obstruct the working of the Agency.
The way out of this dilemma is the imprest account.
It works in principle as a petty-cash reserve oldough the amounts involved are important.
Instead of seeing prior approval from Financial Control, the Agency executes the payment and once a month the imprest account is sent to the Financial Controller to have the ex post approval of the payments which have been made.
On the one hand this facilitates the functioning of the Agency, but, on the other hand, it is a double-edged word since the Agency's internal controls and the financial department must have the capacity to handle this additional responsibility.
Thus, the criticism by the Court of Auditors is understandable, but as long as http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
EUR-Lex - 31997Y0313(06) - EN Page 5 of 5 the Financial Controller is located in Brussels there is, in the Agency's view no alternative to an extensive use of the imprest account.
It is there with great interest that the Agency has noted the recommendation by the Court of Auditors that the Financial Controller of the Commission should place a Financial Controller in the Agency.
The Agency would welcome this step.
Computerized financial system The Court of Auditors underlines the need for the Agency to find an up-to-date computerized financial system which can integrate the accounting side with the budget monitoring side.
In the complicated financial system of the European Union such a computerized system is crucial to avoid having to tie down a lot of resources in financial and budgetary work.
The Agency supports wholeheartedly the conclusion by the Court of Auditors.
Since the beginning of 1995, the Agency has again and again tried to find a solution to this problem.
It is a problem which the European Environment Agency shares with the other EU Agencies.
In 1996, the Agencies launched a joint call for tenders to find a solution but this call for tenders has not been successful, i.e. no satisfactory system has been found.
Thus, the Agency is at present pursuing the possibility of using the new budget monitoring system Sincom 2. The plan is to have it installed and operational in time to execute the 1997 budget on the basis of this system.
There will be still one software for the budget monitoring system and another for the general leather.
Nor will the imprest accounts be integrated in the software the Agency will continue to look for an efficient way of solving these problems and will finishavour to coordinate this work with the other Agencies.
Managed by the Publications Office http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:31997...
C 309/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the 2006 annual accounts of the European Environment Agency, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/05) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION............................................................................................................
1-2 25 DISCLOSURE OF LABOUR.............................................................................
3-6 25 COMMENTS.....................................................................................
26 Responses from the Agency..........................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/25 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Environment Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (1).
The Agency's mission is to set up an environmental monitoring network to provide the Commission, the Member States and the general public with reliable information on the state of the environment.
This information should give the European Union and the Member States the opportunity to take environmental measures and assess the effectiveness of these measures.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's obligations and responsibilities.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 provide information on the main elements of the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2006.
This declaration of incapacity is presented to the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2). It is based on a review of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (3) were drawn up in accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 by its Executive Director and forwarded to the Court, which shall declare the financial statements and the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts.
5. The Court carried out its examination in accordance with the guidelines for financial control and the INTOSAI Code of Obligations and Code of Conduct and the international professional principles for the final examination of IFAC, provided that they are applicable in the Community context.
The audit was planned and carried out in order to obtain adequate assurance that the financial statements were reliable and that the underlying proposals were correct and orderly.
6. The Court shall have an appropriate basis for the following declaration of assurance. The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 shall be valid in all essential respects.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's declaration of sovereignty.
COMMENTS 7.  
More than half of the appropriations were transferred to operational expenditure (Title III and assigned revenue).
These transfers were partly not justified: in the last two months of 2006, the agency committed EUR 1.3 million in commitments, but transferred the corresponding payments to 2007.
A random examination (4) of these transfers showed that they were all related to 2007-performing activities.
The budgetary principle of fairness was therefore not strictly applied.
8. The authorising officer, who was subordinately authorised, not only carried out ex-ante controls, but also managed the access rights to the electronic accounting system, which constituted a violation of the principle of separation of tasks.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 27 September 2007.
For the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER President (1) OJ L 120, 11.5.1990.
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 29 May 2007 and received by the Court on 3 July 2007.
(4) The value of the sample is around EUR 500 000.
C 309/26 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community competence areas under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990) Management structure 1. Management board The Agency for 2006 resources (data for 2005) Main products and services in 2006 Environmental policy Objectives Tasks Final budget: Announcement of Prelude (PRospective Environmental Analysis of Land Use Development in Europe).The Community's environmental policy aims at a high level of protection, taking into account the different situations in the various regions of the Community.
It is based on the principles of prevention and prevention, the principle of combating environmental pollution as a priority at its origin, and the polluter pays principle (...).
In the development of its environmental policy (...) the Community takes into account the available scientific and technical data (...).
Introduce a European environmental information and observation network and provide objective, reliable and comparable information for the Community at European level 
Source: Information provided by the Agency and the Member States, by which they collect, compile and evaluate data on the state of the environment and report on the quality and environmental pressures of the Community territory; 

Seminars organised within the framework of the Council Presidency. 

Table 1 European Environment Agency (Copenhagen) 

Commission.
The following isth Business day to tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day tol of the business day of the business day tol of the business business day1i1i1i1i1 Your2
(2) Recovery of property taxes 2000-2004 (905 000 euros).
C 309/28 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 ANSWER OF THE AGENCY The higher proportion of transfers to 2007 is mainly due to exceptional events in 2006, which led us to postpone interim payments to thematic centres until the satisfactory delivery of the services.
The limits for the commitments that were made were the obligation to conclude licensing agreements before 1 January each year to maintain the continuity, and the time needed to define and negotiate the costs and time limits for complex new work.
The Agency will continue to reduce the share of transfers in this context.
The risks associated with the situation described were assessed by management and controls were introduced to reduce risks.
The remaining risk is considered acceptable.
This situation is being reassessed as part of a safety sensitive task that is to take place in mid-2007.
C 309/40 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the 2006 financial statements of the European Agency for Reconstruction, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/08) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 41 DISCLOSURE OF LABOUR.............................................................................
3-6 41 COMMENTS.....................................................................................
42 Agency replies..........................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/41 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96(1), as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 756/2006 of 28 November 2006 (2).
The agency, established in 2000, was originally responsible for managing the European Union's aid programmes in Kosovo.
The mission was extended to Serbia-Montenegro and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Agency implements programmes to promote institutional building and good governance to support the establishment of a market economy and basic infrastructure for civil society.
The Agency's mandate is to expire in principle on 31 December 2008.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 provide information on the main elements of the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2006.
This declaration of incapacity shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (3).
It is based on a review of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (4) were drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 8(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 (5) and forwarded to the Court, which provides a statement of the financial years' validity and the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals.
The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 are subject to all major commitments.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's powers.
COMMENTS 7. The budget implementation rate was satisfactory.
However, the Agency will be alerted to the extent of the still too binding resources required to monitor the Agency's programmes in particular, as its mandate expires at the end of 2008.
8. With regard to the accounting system and internal control system, the Court noted improvements over previous years, in particular with regard to monitoring the resources managed by external bodies and the application of procurement procedures.
For the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER President (1) OJ L 204, 14.8.1996, p. 1.
OJ L 332, 30.11.2006, p. 18.
OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1.
(4) The annual accounts were drawn up on 13 June 2007 and received by the Court on 6 July 2007.
OJ L 306, 7.12.2000, p. 7.
C 309/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community competence areas under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Management structure The Agency's resources (data for 2005) Products and services in 2006 The Community carries out measures of economic, financial and technical cooperation with third countries within the framework of its powers.
These measures complement the measures taken by the Member States and are in line with the Community's development policy.
Objectives Scope of application Tasks Board of Directors Final budget After operations centres (most important developments): (Article 181a) Operations centres in Belgrade, Pristina, Podgorica and Skopje with extensive administrative autonomy.
The Agency manages the main assistance programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and the Republic of Montenegro) and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM). The following are States, United Nations administration territorial units, federal, regional and local territorial bodies, public and semi-public bodies, social partners, business associations, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organisations.
108 (114) posts provided for in the establishment plan, (iii) support for the establishment of a market economy and continuation of investment in basic infrastructure and environmental protection measures; other posts: (iv) support for social development and the strengthening of civil society.
Contract staff responsible for discharge: 29 (28) posts, 26 of which are occupied.
External control: 164 (170) posts, staffed posts: 157 (162).
(b) Supply of equipment for border protection police; c) Completion of a state-of-the-art DNA laboratory; d) Renovation and equipment for courts; e) Renovation programme for health care users; f) Revolving Credit Fund loans; g) Enterprise training measures; h) Regional training for adults; i) Economic development programmes for the most important city administrations; j) Re-granting new borders to Hungary and Croatia; k) Re-integration of municipal infrastructure; l) Statistical office reform; m) Support for direct foreign investment management; n) Support for airworks filters including minorities and returnees; o) Completion of electriziticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticiticitii;
Euro Euro) 19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/43 Community competence areas under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Management structure Funds provided to the Agency (data for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Source: Agency data.
MONTENEGRO: a) Construction of Podgorica International Airport and modernisation of Tivat Airport; b) Central IT database for the Ministry of the Interior; c) Support of the Agency for Personnel Administration; d) Creation of a new road construction and new traffic law; e) Unbundling/restructuring of public electricity companies, energy efficiency strategy; f) Establishment of an Agency for Environmental Protection; g) Management consultancy for enterprises; h) Support of the Training Centre for Justice; i) Criminal reform; j) Support in the development of a strategy for agriculture and rural development.
C 309/44 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community contribution 24 795 20 200 Title I Staff 18540 17304 17117 187 1236 495 385 109 19035 17304 17502 187 1345 47 6755 4705 4651 507 1597 Revenue Expenditure Appropriations carried over from the previous year Appropriations entered in the final budget for the financial year Appropriations entered in the final budget Appropriations still available (from the financial year and previous years) Other revenue p.m.
The revenue collected and payments are protected by the cash-based accounting method. (1 000 euros)
C 309/46 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency is implementing a very accelerated procedure for implementing aid programmes.
The last allocation to the Agency for assistance was EUR 250 million in 2006, which will be distributed over three years, which will be available until 2009.
In the first six months of 2007, the Agency received aid of EUR 185 million, which represents 74% of annual funding.
Therefore, the balance to be awarded at the end of the mandate is expected to be small.
C 311/42 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the 2007 financial statements of the European Agency for Reconstruction, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/07) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 43 DISCLOSURE OF LABOUR.............................................................................
3-6 43 COMMENTS.....................................................................................
45 replies from the Agency..........................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/43 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Reconstruction (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 1628/96(1), as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1756/2006 of 28 November 2006 (2).
The mission was extended to Serbia and Montenegro as well as the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Agency implements programmes to promote institutional building and good governance to support the establishment of the market economy and basic infrastructure and strengthen civil society.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's conditions and capabilities.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 provide information on the main elements of the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2007.
This declaration of incapacity shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (3).
It is based on the audit of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (4) were drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 8(2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 (5) and forwarded to the Court, which provides a statement of the financial years' validity and the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals.
5. The Court carried out its examination in accordance with the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI) and the International Professional Principles for Final Professionals of IFAC(6), provided that they are applicable in the Community context.
The audit was planned and carried out in order to obtain adequate assurance that the financial statements were reliable and that the underlying proposals were correct and orderly.
OJ L 332, 30.11.2006, p. 18.
OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1.
(4) The annual accounts were prepared on 10 July 2008 and received by the Court on 16 July 2008.
(6) ISSAI is the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC is the International Federation of Accountants.
6. The Court shall have an appropriate basis for the following declaration of assurance: The financial statements of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 shall be valid in all essential respects.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's declaration of sovereignty.
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget amounted to EUR 25.2 million compared to EUR 268.8 million in the previous year.
Although the budget implementation rate was satisfactory at the end of the year, the Agency at this time had a budget of EUR 453 million for operational activities, EUR 163 million, which had not yet been committed, and EUR 290 million for payments to existing commitments.
Since the Agency's activities are set to last for several years, these activities will have to be carried out partly beyond 2008 (the last year of the Agency's existence).
8. The Agency's mandate shall expire on 31 December 2008.
On 24 April 2008, the European Commission adopted a decision to transfer the programmes previously managed by the Agency, and on 11 June 2008 it issued a note with instructions and guidelines for the transfer of the programme and contract documents.
This note does not cover all the items of the Agency's review.
In order to regulate the transfer of all the programmes and posts of the Agency, the Agency and the Commission must sign an agreement approved by the Agency's Management Board.
This will facilitate the transfer of items and ensure that they are correctly reported in the Agency's annual accounts.
C 311/44 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 9. The sum of 180 million euros shown in the review of the accounts as at 31 December 2007 reflected in part the pre-financing received by the Commission for the Agency under contracts and grant agreements.
These must also be subject to the administrative competence of the European Commission at the end of the Agency's mandate.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 18 September 2008.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/45 Community competence areas under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2667/2000 of 5 December 2000) Management structure 1. Administrative resources provided by the Agency for 2007 (data for 2006) Activities and services in 2007 The Community is implementing measures of economic, financial and technical cooperation with third countries within its powers.
These measures complement the measures taken by the Member States and are in line with the Community's development policy.
Objectives Scope of application Tasks Final budget: by intervention centres (most important developments): KOSOVO: (Article 181a) Administration, strengthening of institutions and the rule of law; 
The Agency manages the main aid programmes in Serbia and Montenegro (Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and the Republic of Montenegro) and in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The most important are states, territorial units under the administration of the United Nations, federal, regional and local territorial bodies, public and semi-public bodies, social partners, business associations, cooperatives, mutual societies, associations, foundations and non-governmental organisations.
One representative per Member State, two representatives of the Commission and one observer of the European Investment Bank.
(a) socio-economic development aid for minorities; Council of the Court of Auditors. 27 (26) of which: 4. Total staffing required for discharge: 264 (273) a) drafting of legislation for public administration reform; Table 1 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) Other posts: f) Privatisation of public utilities; staff: 165 (164) posts, of which: 154 (157) g) Sustainable forestry and land use; administrative activities: 101 (102). d) support for privatisation and enterprise training; b) support for civil society and the media; SERBIA:
MONTENEGRO: a) Supporting the integration of refugees and internally displaced persons and supporting civil society organisations; b) Strengthening environmental management; c) Improving road infrastructure in coastal areas; d) Supporting public administration reform: police and prison; e) Unbundling/restructuring public electricity companies, strategy to increase energy efficiency; f) Management consulting for enterprises; g) Animal identification and registration system and management of fisheries resources.
(a) Support in the context of partnerships in the field of money laundering, corruption and organised crime, statistics, air quality, financial control; (b) Completion of the establishment of a national system for animal identification; (c) Increase the performance of SMEs and the establishment of a human resource development fund; (d) Support for civil society organisations and communities; (e) Support in the elimination of industrial problem zones, waste water treatment at community level, waste management and their risks for health care; (f) Support in the planning of the instrument for production aid; (g) Support in the implementation of professional standards in the management of enterprises.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/47 Origin of revenue Revenues recorded for the financial year Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Commission grant 24 559 p.m.
23 960 4 743 Title I Staff 187021786917540 330 832 187 0 133 54 18889 17869 17673 330 886 36 6364 4770 469 1125 Other revenue Title II Administration 5857 4768 4299 469 1089 507 0 471 Assigned revenue 225 642 222 461 Title III Operational expenditure 13727 3031 120 13607 0 678806 276086 236172 439217 3417 692533 279117 236292 452824 3417 Total 250 201 251 164 Total 38286 25668 21959 14406 1921 679500 276086 236776 439217 3507 717786 301754 258735 453623 5428 Revenue Expenditures From the previous year 
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its annual accounts.
The revenue collected and the payments are protected by the cash-based accounting method.
C 311/48 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki)  
These financial statements are prepared according to the method of accrual accounting.
Table 4 European Agency for Reconstruction (Thessaloniki) 
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/49 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 7. At the end of 2007, the Agency was able to continue with commitments and payments for the annual programmes 2004, 2005 and 2006, given the multi-annual nature of the CARDS programmes.
The deadline for the commitment of funds for CARDS is 2009 and for the payment is 2010.
The cost of these three programmes was EUR 1.8 billion.
The fact that EUR 163 million (9%) is still committed and a total amount of EUR 453 million (25 %) is still to be paid three years before the CARDS deadline shows a very high execution rate.
The Court praised the Agency's performance in its Special Report No 5/2007 (OJ C 285, 27.11.2007, p. 1).
8. The Agency does everything in its power to successfully carry out this transfer.
It is about to draw up agreements for the promotion of objects from their integration with various EU institutions.
In addition, the Agency is in contact with the Commission to formally regulate all aspects of the transfer and will submit the outcome to the Management Board for approval.
C 311/20 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the 2007 annual accounts of the European Aviation Safety Agency, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/04) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 21 RELIABILITY COLLECTION.............................................................
3-6 21 COMMENTS.....................................................................
23 replies from the Agency..........................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/21 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2002 (1).
The main tasks of the Agency are to maintain a high level of civil aviation safety, to ensure the proper development of civil aviation safety, to develop certification specifications and to issue certificates for aviation technical products.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's conditions and capabilities.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 provide information on the main elements of the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2007.
This declaration of incapacity shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (2), and shall be based on the examination of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (3) were drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 49 of Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 and forwarded to the Court, which provides a statement of the financial years' validity and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
5. The Court carried out its examination in accordance with the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI) and the International Professional Principles for Final Professionals of IFAC(4), provided that they are applicable in the Community context.
OJ L 240, 7.9.2002, p. 1.
(3) The annual accounts were prepared on 30 June 2008 and received by the Court on 2 July 2008.
(4) ISSAI is a member of the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC is a member of the International Federation of Accountants.
6. The Court shall have an appropriate basis for the following declaration of assurance: The financial statements of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 shall be valid in all essential respects.
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget amounted to 72.0 million euros, compared with 66.0 million euros in the previous year.
The Agency's budget is financed from fees and fees for the issuing or modification of certificates and approvals by the Agency and from the Commission's contribution.
8. The 2007 establishment plan provided for 467 temporary posts, an increase of 139 posts compared with the 2006 establishment plan.
Since the appropriations for staff expenditure did not cover actual staff expenditure, the Agency decided to reduce the number of recruitments and agreed with the Commission to limit the number of posts to a maximum of 342, of which 333 were occupied at the end of the year.
However, the establishment plan has not been adjusted accordingly.
The Agency should carefully monitor the effectiveness of the expenditure proposals submitted to the budget authority for adoption.
9. In accordance with the new Rules of Procedure for Fees, which have been in force since 1 June 2007, (5) the Agency classified appropriations of EUR 14.9 million as assigned revenue to cover future costs for issuing certificates or certificates.
This amount was, however, overestimated, since it also includes charges imposed under the old rules of the Code of the Fees.
(5) Commission Regulation (EC) No 593/2007 of 31 May 2007, OJ L 347, 31.12.2007, p.
C 311/22 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 10. In a procurement procedure, the situation for tenderers was unclear because of the lack of clear and complete information on the award criteria and their respective weightings on the one hand and because of the method for financial evaluation on the other hand.
In three other cases (1), a restricted procedure was carried out following a call for expressions of interest, although the total value of the services to be provided was above the threshold from which an open procedure must be initiated.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors at its meeting in Luxembourg on 24 and 25 September 2008.
For the Court of Auditors V
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/23 Community competence areas under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the Parliament and of the Council) Management structure The Agency 2007 resources allocated (data for 2006) Products and services Common transport policy Objectives Measures to be taken by the Agency 1. Board of Directors composed of one representative per Member State and one representative of the Commission; it shall set up an advisory body of interested parties.
Final budget: Opinions: The Council, acting by qualified majority, can decide whether, to what extent and by what methods appropriate rules for maritime and aviation are to be adopted. Maintaining a uniform, high level of safety in civil aviation safety in Europe and ensuring proper maintenance and further development of civil aviation safety.
(Article 80 of the Treaty) International cooperation: source: Agency information.

55.8 (33.2) million euros (65%), Community aid: 26.5 (31.4) million-17 changes in certificates: specifications (15) and acceptable methods of proof and instructions (2).
Contribution of the Federal Republic of Germany (Federal Ministry of Transport) and the City of K-ln: 0.3 (1.2) million euros.

European technical specifications: 198 Court of Auditors.
Additional type certificates: 879 Total staff: 362 (309) of which are operational: 277 (227), administrative: 57 (57), other: 28 (25).
C 311/24 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Origin of revenue Revenue entered in the final budget of the financial year Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Expenditure transferred from the previous year(s) Own revenue 42 800 26 530 40 967 26 530 Title I Personnel entered 33 624 committed 33 086 disbursed 32 152 
836 14 865 326 Assigned revenue from fees and charges collected p.m.
14 865 326 0 326 14 865 0 500 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other assigned revenue Other assigned revenue 836 Total 72 045 85 281 Total 72 045 84 996 50 402 35 094 1 414 19 252 16 985 2 267 Revenue Expenditure Appropriations from the final budget NB: The rounded figures may give rise to divergences.
Source: Agency information.
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its annual accounts.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Aviation Safety Agency (K) 
Table 4 European Aviation Safety Agency (K) 
These financial statements are prepared according to the method of accrual accounting.
C 311/26 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 8. In the first two years of implementation of the Rules of Procedure, the Agency's revenue was not sufficient to cover the estimated total cost.
Therefore, the Agency has decided to reduce its attitudes, as a precautionary measure.
This was reflected in the staff policy plan 2008-2010, which was agreed with the Commission.
9. In 2007 in the transition phase, the old and the new rules of the building were applied in the same way.
The calculation of assigned revenue from fees and charges is in accordance with Article 64(5) of the basic Regulation (EC) No 216/2008), which states that fees and charges, including those collected in 2007, are assigned revenue.
The basic Regulation does not provide that any charges taken under the previous regulation should be excluded.
The exact method of calculation was submitted to the Management Board's Committee on Budgets (28 May 2008).
10. The Agency is fully aware of the need to comply with the Commission's procurement rules in detail.
It will pay particular attention to informing potential bidders exactly about the award criteria and their evaluation.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/55 REPORT on the 2006 annual accounts of the European Maritime Safety Agency, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/10) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 DISCRIMINATION OF LABOUR.............................................................
3-6 COMMENTS.....................................................................................
Responses from the Agency..........................................................
Point page 56 56 56 58 61
C 309/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 (1).
The Agency's tasks include ensuring a high level of maritime safety, preventing pollution from ships, providing scientific and technical assistance to Member States and the Commission, and monitoring the application of Community legislation and assessing its effectiveness.
2. Table 1 summarises the Agency's obligations and responsibilities.
This declaration of incapacity is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2). It is based on a review of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (3) were drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and forwarded to the Court, which provides a statement of the financial years' validity and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
5. The Court carried out its examination in accordance with the guidelines for financial control and the INTOSAI Code of Obligations and Code of Conduct and the international professional principles for the final examination of IFAC, provided that they are applicable in the Community context.
OJ L 208, 5.8.2002, p. 1.
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 13 June 2007 and received by the Court on 27 June 2007.
6. The Court shall have an appropriate basis for the following declaration of assurance. The financial statements of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 shall be valid in all essential respects.
COMMENTS 7. More than 43% of the payment claims had to be cancelled at the end of 2006.
In addition, there was a rise in revenue in the last quarter of the year, which did not strictly respect the budgetary principle of budgetary truth.
The Commission has also proposed that the Council should adopt a new approach to the budget, which would be more appropriate to the budget than to the budget.
9. Legal commitments were made before the corresponding commitments were made (7).
Some parties provided for 100% pre-financing, which is not in line with the principle of sound financial management (8).
(4) More than 35 transfers in 2006.
(5) The failure to meet the recruitment targets led to a transfer of funds, where budget line 1 100 (funding) was reduced by 1.2 million euros.
(6) The budget shall include a summary of the payments due in the next financial years due to commitments made earlier (Article 31(2)(c) of the Agency's financial regulation).
(7) Four cases with a total value of around 345 000 euros.
(8) Article 67 of the Financial Regulation (Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2343/2002 of 23 December 2002).
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/57 10. The inventory management system detects weaknesses in the existence of all parties.
The on; based on records it is not possible to do so, the actual IT equipment is not included in the system.
C 309/58 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Source: Information provided by the Agency. Community competence areas under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002, as amended by Regulations (EC) No 1644/2003 of 22 July 2003 and (EC) No 724/2004 of 31 March 2004) Management structure 1. Management Board The Agency for 2006 resources provided (data for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Common transport policy Objectives Tasks Final budget 2006: Number of specifications and instructions: 49 (including reports and/or studies). ăThe Council may decide by qualified majority whether, to what extent and according to what methods appropriate rules for maritime navigation and aviation should be adopted.


Total staff: 131 (100), monitoring the functioning of the Community rules on port State control, which may include visits to the Member States; one representative of each Member State, four representatives of the Commission, four non-voting representatives of the economic sectors concerned.
Inspections/preparations: 47 (- > 600 mission-person days). technical assistance to the Commission in relation to port State control; - adoption of the budget and adoption of the work programme; staffed: promotion of cooperation between the States bordering the sea areas concerned; 2. executive director of the Management Board in order to advance cooperation between the Member States and the Commission in developing a common methodology for the investigation of sea pollution; 3. external control Court of Auditors. of which includes the provision of reliable information on maritime safety and pollution by vessels for the Commission and the Member States;
Table 1 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon)
4. Discharge requirement 41 (27), other allowances: 7 (8).
Staff numbers at 31 December 2006: 
GM: Separate resources (commitments must not be in line with payment appropriations).
ZE: Payment appropriations under separate appropriations.
Title II Expenditure in kind (NGM) Title III Operational expenditure (GM) Table 2 European Maritime Safety Agency 
C 309/60 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon)  
Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) 
These financial statements are prepared according to the method of accrual accounting.
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/61 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency's budget has been used to cover more than 50% of the budget for the fight against pollution.
In this area, the Agency has launched calls for tenders for the award of four vessels specifically designed to combat pollution.
At the end of this process, two companies decided to withdraw their offers at the last moment, so that only two companies could be awarded.
This led to the cancellation of payment claims in considerable amount at the end of the year.
8. The move of the agency from Brussels to Lisbon in 2006 had an impact on the budget, which was difficult to predict, including the retirement of almost 20% of the staff employed.
9. Procedures to avoid subsequent commitments are being streamlined.
The conditions of prefinancing are revised in accordance with the Court's remark.
10. ABAC Assets' old asset management system was removed in June 2007 and the Court's problems were resolved.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/57 REPORT on the 2007 annual accounts of the European Maritime Safety Agency, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/09) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Point page 58 58 60 63
C 311/58 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2002 (1).
The Agency's tasks include ensuring a high level of maritime safety, preventing pollution from ships, providing technical assistance to Member States and the Commission, and monitoring the application of Community legislation and assessing its effectiveness.
Tables 2, 3 and 4 provide information on the main elements of the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 2007.
4. The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (3) were drawn up by its Executive Director in accordance with Article 18 of Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 and forwarded to the Court, which shall declare the financial statements and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
(3) The annual accounts were prepared on 11 June 2008 and received by the Court on 2 July 2008.
COMMENTS 7. The Agency's 2007 budget amounted to 48.2 million euros, compared with 44.7 million euros in the previous year.
The Agency's budget is mainly financed by the European Commission.
The procedures for drawing up the budget have not been sufficiently rigorously applied.
This led to a high number of transfers of funds (5), a faulty presentation of the budget (6) and a non-compliant change in the source of funding for measures to combat pollution (7).
8. Legal commitments were made before the corresponding commitments were made (8).
(5) More than 32 transfers in 2007.
(6) In the case of separate appropriations, the budget must include a balance sheet of the financial years ahead (Article 31(2)(c) of the Agency's financial regulation) for payments due from previous financial years.
(7) From mid-June to December, 25 million euros were granted for measures to combat pollution by the budget as a similar resource (C1), wrongly transferred to assigned revenue (R0).
(8) Three cases, totaling 208 000 euros.
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/59 9. Selection criteria and minimum number of points required for admission to the next phase of the selection procedure before the start of the evaluation process were not defined in relation to the tested recruitment procedures.
At no time have staff representatives been invited by the employment authority to participate in recruitment procedures.
This approach has not ensured transparent and non-discriminatory procedures.
The Council may decide by qualified majority whether or not to adopt appropriate rules for maritime transport and aviation.
Development and operation of the necessary information systems; examination of Member States' requests for assistance.



5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/61 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community contribution 48 249 37 387 Title I Staff (NGM) 15 320 3 180 11 999 3 149 11 805 1 881 191 1 267 3 321 31 664 245 419 606 523 83 Other revenue 157  
ZE: Payment appropriations under separate appropriations.
The appropriations for Title III carried over cover only revenue re-used (101 000 euros) and assigned revenue (Phare Đ 40 403 euros).
The collected revenue and payments are protected according to the method of cash-based accounting. Declared paid tied 
C 311/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) 
This table summarises the data provided by the Agency in its annual accounts.
Table 4 European Maritime Safety Agency (Lisbon) 
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/63 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 7. The Agency welcomes the observations of the Court of Auditors.
The Agency continues its efforts to improve planning and monitoring.
Particular attention is paid to the forecast and timing of payments.
The necessary transfers in 2007 are within the 10% threshold under the financial regulation.
On 20 March 2007, the Management Board, acting on a proposal from the Commission, decided to use the resources to combat pollution as assigned revenue, but decided not to treat it more effectively on 21 November 2007.
8. Measures to avoid post-secondary education are being undermined.
The key factors are training and communication.
9. Following the Court of Auditors' comments, measures were taken to ensure that the selection criteria and the minimum number of points required are established at a earlier date of the selection procedure.
In the light of the forthcoming adoption of the new implementing provisions on the recruitment of temporary staff, the Agency will take into account the Court of Auditors' further observations on the procedure for recruitment procedures.
Orricial J ournal c 393 Volume 40 of the European Markets 29 December197 Notice No 97/C 393/01 97/C 393/02 97/C 393/03 97/C 393/04 97/C 393/05 97/C 393/06 97/C 393/07 97/C 393/08 # Information and Notices Contents Page I Information Court of Auditors Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop — Salonika), approved by the replies of the Centre 1 Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation), approved by the replies of the Foundation 10 Report on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA, London) (Financial Report of the European Commission)
23 Report on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies 29 Report on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Financial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies 35 Report on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Financial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies 41 EN 2 (Continued overleaf) Report on the financial statements of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies 47
Notice No 97/C 393/09 97/C 393/10 Contents (continued) Report on the financial statements of the Community Plant Variety Office (CPVO-Angers) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the office's replies 52 Report on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies....
58 Notice to readers (see page 3 of the cover) EN
224 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 594 — 914 — 494 — 494 — 494 — 994 — 994 — 994 — 9 — 9 — 9 — 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9
C 393/2 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is addressed to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 12 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (a) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1946/93 (2).
2. The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training for the financial year ended 31 December 1996.
In agreement with Article 18 (1) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3) as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Management Board.
This responsibility included the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for pursuant to Articles 65, 67 and 68 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (4) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 (3).
The Court of Auditors is required within the meaning of Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community to examine these financial statements.
3. The Court undertook its audit in accord with generally accepted auditing standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context, and, accordingly, carried out search tests of the accounting records and search other auditing procedures as the Court deemed necessary in the circumstances.
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996'are reliable and the underlying transactions are, as a whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) was l established by the Council Regulation EEC No 337/75 {) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of promoting vocational training at Community level.
Cedefop shared operations in Berlin in 1976 and moved to Salonika in 1995.
6. The same Regulation defines its role as that of assisting 'the Commission in encouraging, at Community level, the promotion and development of vocational and in-service training', of contributing 'to the implementation of a common vocational training policy' and especially encouraging 'the exchange of information and the comparison of expertise'.
Its main tasks in the field of vocational training are 'to compile documentation, to contribute to the development and coordination of research, to disseminated useful documentation and information, to encourage and support initiatives likely to facilitate a coordinated approach (specifically in respect of the approximation of standards and the mutual recognition of certificates) and to provide a forum for all those concerned'.
Scope of the audit 7. The Court carried out a financial audit of the 1996 accounts and has reviewed the Centre's decisions concerning its temporary and permanent premises and staff situation.
Financial data 8. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the financial statements of the Centre.
Available estimates for the financial year 1996 to ECU 14.8 million.
Commitments entered into give rise to ECU 11.4 million in payments and ECU 2.1 million in carry-overs to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 1.3 million having been cancelled.
Approvals carried over from the previous financial year give rise to ECU 4.2 million in payments and ECU 0.6 million in cancellations.
Table 3 of this report gives an analysis of the utilization of the approvals for 1996 as well as of those carried over from 1995.
Observations concerning budgetary implementation Separation of duties 9. The Centre has put in place adequate procedures for the separation of duties of authorizing officer, accounting officer and imprest holder (5).
Imprest account 10. A high proportion (in 1996 74%, including sales) of payments continue to be made prior to approval by the Financial" Controller.
Last year (5) the Court recommended that the use of the.imprest account be limited to ongoing or small expenses, where' the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
A Management Board decision defining which kind of expenses may be paid threenph the imnrest account has been established and came into force on 1 January 1997.
Transfers of appropriations 11. The value of transfers of appropriations between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 891 600 (6 % of the initial budget), down from ECU 922 000 in 1995.
29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/3 12. Following consultations with and the approach of the different services in the Commission (DG IX, DG XIX and DG XX), the Centre transferred ECU 30 000 from budget line 117 6 'Other services and work sent out for translation and typing' to a newly-created budget line 1 1 1 0 'Auxiliaries', and ECU 40 000 from budget line 1 1 0 0 'Basic sales' to a newly-created budget line 1 1 1 2 'Local agents'.
These new budget lines were created by the Centre.
The Court acknowledges the reasons for making these transfers, but notes that they are contrary to paragraph 4 (a) of Article 21 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 which states: 'appropriations may be transferred only to budget heads for which the statement of expenditure has authorized approvals or carried a token entry'.
The same budget lines are also included in the 1997 budget with approval of the Budgetary Authority.
Carry-overs and cancellations of approvals 13. The volume of approvals carried over has decreased in 1996.
Nearly 77% of final admissions for 1996 were paid out in 1996 as compared with 61% in 1995.
The percentage of commitments made and carried over to 1997'was 14% (28% in 1995).
The percentage of cancellations was 9% compared with 10% in 1995.
Table 4 shows the carry-overs from the 1996 initial budget by title and their subsequent use.
Observations concerning the revenue and expenditure account and the balance sheet Revenue 14. The EU subsidiary for the Centre for 1996 was ECU 14 625 000.
The Centre actually requested and received ECU 14 410 000.
15. In 1996, for the first time Norway and Iceland paid the Centre ECU 9 6 1 3 5 as a contribution for their participation in the work programme.
Expenditure 16. Article 46 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 stipulates that contracts may be made by direct agreement where the contract involves an amount not exceeding the limit of ECU 12 000.
In the case of at least 17 study contracts and five fixed asset purchases, contracts over that limit were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of the Regulation, however all payments were approved by the Financial Controller.
17. The result of a study of delays in the submission of work by contracts for 1996 showed that 55 % of the contracts did. not respect the contract deadline.
None of the minutes of management meetings contained any evidence of a review of the performance of contracts in meeting contractual deadlines.
Balance sheet 18. The Centre made an up-to-date inventory list as foreseen in Article 52 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (s).
Fixed assets of ECU 1 443 431 recorded in the 1996 balance sheet represent the historic cost of materials and veneers.
19· At the year end, cash balances hero by. the Centre were ECU 4.1 million, down from ECU 5.9 million in 1995.
The Centre is again taking responsibility for managing large cash balances.
The Court recommends the Centre make its quarterly drawings from the Commission on the basis of its actual cash needs.
20. The balance sheet includes an amount of ECU 483 308 related to 'VAT to recover', of which ECU 251 434 credits to the year 1995 but not yet recovered due to the move to Salonika.
The Court asks the Centre to do the necessary to recover this amount as soon as possible.
With regard to the 'VAT to recover for 1996', the Centre is recommended to explain to the responsible tax authorities every detail related' to this procedure to avoid funds being cancelled or excellent delays in reimbursement.
Audit of the Centre's premises'and staff situation Temporary premises 21. As the Court observed last year (8), the Centre had to invest ECU 120 000 to fit out the premises to make the temporary building functional and'ready for use'.
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the Centre 'explained that these costs were incurred to improve the conditions for efficient functioning of the Centre', but was unable to explain who was able to bear these costs.
Permanent premises 22. The Centre and the Greek State signed on 22 June 1995, a basic agreement regarding the construction of the permanent building.
Agreement to this agreement, the Centre will pay to the Greek State ECU 6 879 750 in four equal events of ECU 1 719 937.
The first two were paid on 1 September 1995 and 1 September 1996
This third installation has to be approved by the Budgetary Authority and the last installation will be paid when the building is handled" over.
23. If approach is given by the Budgetary Authority before 1 September 1997, the Centre will have paid to the Greek' State ECU 5 159 811 for the construction of the permanent building.
The construction of the building was planned to commence on 30 March 1997.
At the time of the audit (May 1997), the tendering procedure, which is managed by the Greek authorities, was not yet finalized nor were any contracts signed.
As a consequence, no financial data or budget related to this investment was available for audit.
Staff 24. In 1996, the staff complement table authorized 81 posts (permanent and temporary positions), of which: 25 A, 11 LA, 15 B, 27 C and 3 D. At the time of the audit (May 1997), 78 persons were actually working in.
Salonika, of which: 60 officials and temporary officials (25 A/LA, 10 B, 23 C and 2 D), 7 national experts, 5 local agents, 3 auxiliaries, 2 interims and 1'stagiaire'.
25. Another three persons are working at Cedefop's office in Brussels, one person is seconded to Eurostat for a cooperative project, three persons we're still in Berlin, This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors and 13 November 1997. four staff members are on special leave (CCP) and one person has been ill for many months.
Many new members of staff have been recruited during 1996.
26. The Court has been informed of an investigation by the Greek tax authorities concerning, among others, tax and social security payments for local staff put at the disposal of Cedefop by a company in Salonika.
Conclusion 27. In the case of at least 17 study contracts and five fixed-asset purchases, contracts over the limit of ECU 12000 were made without following the tendering procedure as described in Article 45 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1416/76 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1948/93 (see paragraph 16).
28. The Centre once again holds large cash balances.
This situation should be avoided by making quarterly drawings from the Commission on the basis of actual cash needs (see paragraph 19).
29. The Centre is recommended to make sure that the work concerning the permanent premises is progressing in conformity with the contract (see paragraph 23). in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President (!)
OJL39,13.2.1975,p.1.
(2) OJ L 181, 23.7.1993, p. 11.
(3) OJ L 164, 24.6.1976, p. 1.
(4) OJ L 181, 23.7.1993, p. 15.
(5) Report on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1995 of the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop — Salonika).
29. 12. 97 I EN 
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 9 060
Total expenditure (b)
29.12.97 ΓΕΝ Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/7 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure 4. Expenditure not provided for Total Definitive 7 839 3 008 3 974 14 821 Payments 6 225 (79,42) 2 667.
(88.65) 2 492 (62.71) 11384 (76.81) Carry-overs 510 (6.5) 258 (8.59) 1 383 (34.8) 2 151 (14.52) Cancelled 1 104 (14.08) 83 (2.76) 99 (2.49) 1286 (8.67) Available 1287 864 2 664 10 4 825(*) 1213 (94.32) 757 (87.52) 2 229 (83.67) 10 (100.00) 4 209 (87.23) Cancelled 74 (5.68) 107 (12.38) 435 (16.33) 0 (0.00) 616 (12.77) TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 — UTILISATION OF AVAILABLE APPPROPRI ONI The figures in brackets indicate the percentage of definitive or available approaches. (*) ECU 4 668 287 (31. 12. 1996) + ECU 156 500 (non-automatic carry-overs) Source on Cedefop by available application.
1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 —CARRY-OVERS FROM THE 1996 INITIAL BUDGET Staff Administrative expenditure Operational expenditure Carry-over from 1996 509 8 3 258 0 4 3 1 383 122 Carry-over as percentage of initial budget 6.5 8.59 34.8 14.52 Carry-overs paid out 1. 1. to 31. 3. 97 254 4 0 5 168 2 5 4 574 599 997 258 (in ECU) Percentage of 1996 carry-over used by 31. 3. 97 49.89 65.04 41.54 46.36 expenditure Total Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by Cedefop.
2 151 048 (ECU 1000)
C 393/8 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING The nature of the observations of the Court of Auditors makes it possible for the Management Board of the Centre to react in a direct manner.
The board will follow the structure of the Court's observations and conclusions.
The numbering of the annotated paragraphs corresponds to that used in the Court's report.
12. The Centre thanks the Court for the understanding shows for the indicated transfers, which were necessary for smooth functioning in the Greek context and points out the exceptional nature of these operations which will not recur under normal circumstances.
16. Concerning the procedure to call for tenders the following points should be taken into account: (a) Some ongoing contracts are based on earlier calls for interest and for tenders.
In the case of the documentary network, for which contracts are most often above ECU 12 000, these were signed in most cases with the same specialized institutions as in.previous years.
A high degree of continuity is needed in this work and a yearly call for tenders with the possibility of frequent changes in contracts would be very disruptive and, due to the need for training and a period of introduction, inefficient.
Nevertheless the performance of the contracts is carefully evaluated and a call for tenders (on the basis of the call for interest recently made by the"Centre) will be launched in cases where it is considered that this performance is not satisfactory. (b) Contracts for preparing new monographs describing the vocational education and training systems in the Member States (or for updating existing ones) are subject to the usual rules, i.e. a restricted invitation to tender is organized.
In the case of the monographs, this list is drawn up following consultation with members of the Management Board.
An exception to this rule was made during 1995 and 1996 in relation to monographs concerning the new Member States and the EEA countries, when it was thought more approach to take the decision directly following consultation with members of the Management Board.
As planned, the Centre launched a general call for an expression of interest for participation in networks and the performance of study contracts.
This was published in the Official Journal of the European Communities (C 214 of 16 July 1997) and the results of this call are now being processed.
17. Delays in completeing transactions in relation to contracts in many cases deriving from defective administrative procedures, especially the failure of contracts to forward in time the necessary invoices for payment.
Delays were also incurred sometimes in signing contracts, allowing work on them to begin only some months after the date initially planned which had knock-on effects.
In other cases delays were due to the need for intensive and time-consuming discussion between the contractor and Cedefop on the basis of the contract's. draft report.
In cases in which the contracting institution may be co-funding the activity itself, or maintaining some funding from another source, Cedefop cannot always dictate the timetable.
This is especially so, when the price that Cedefop is paying is lower than the market might dictate for the work involved.
Nevertheless, Cedefop wants try to avoid delays.
In the case of unreasonable delays the Centre indicates to the contractors that these imply serious disadvantages for them, as far as the prospects for future cooperation are concerned.
The new list of interested persons/institutions, which will be the result of the recent call for expression of interest, should enlarge the options available to the Centre for the future award of contracts and therefore make it easier to insist that contracts and their institutions are comprehensively with the rules and timetable laid down.
A business-like approach will be maintained.
19. The Management Board notes the improvements in 1996 and considers that further progress is possible.
It will intensify its efforts to that end.
The Centre has improved its procedure by adding to every quarterly drawing from the Commission submity a detailed statement with respect to the current supply of means of payment and the total payments expected during the subsequent four months.
The difference between these shows the balance of the real demand and, as a result, a permanent excessive cash balance will be avoided.
20. The Centre indirectly initiated action after the audit of the Court of Auditors and is pressing for reimbursement.
The corresponding records for recalling from the German financial authorities the value-added tax (VAT) paid in 1995 and 1996 by the Centre have been submitted.
The Centre has made contact with the responsible tax authorities in Greece and has been informed in detail on the procedure and appropriate preparation of the records for recalling value-added tax
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/9 (VAT) paid in previous years.
In the mean time, the records-concerning the financial years 1995 and 1996 have been prepared and forward to the authorities.
The Centre draws to mind that — the quickly refurbished temporary premises are not an optimal solution (e.g. the available surface area is only +/-one third the size of the future new building), — new needs after Cedefop's relocation (particularly, investment in the infrastructure for electronic equipment), — neither the initial agreement nor the Greek law is clear on who should bear such costs.
Legal advice confirmed the uncertainty.
The Centre had to make modifications to run operations efficiently.
The Centre acknowledges that it would have been better to make arrangements beforehand on any additional investment.
The owner has taken note of these additional investments made by Cedefop and has shown a generous attitude in new issues.
The Centre also wants try to receive compensation in the settlements at the end of the present rental contract.
23. The Centre agrees that the preparatory time was very long, but is conflicting that matters will now progress rapidly.
The calendar for the coming period delivered by the Greek authorities is as follows: Calendar with main events and dates for Cedefop's new building Selection of the winner of the call for tenders in the second round of tenders Implementation of the infrastructure work Foundation stonelaid by Mr Pangalos, Foreign Affairs Minister Signing of the contract Estimated total time for completing the work Expected completion of the project The Centre expectations that the Budgetary Authority will lift the reserve in the 1997 budget and that the Centre will be able to complete with its contract obligations vis-à-vis the Greek Government.
Hopefully, the progress will be substantial enough to pay the third investment before the end of 1997.
This would also be of importance because in the budget proposal of 1998 there is no request for another installation.
24—25. There are indeed many new staff members recruited and several persons working in the Centre on different contracts on top of the table of posts.
The social measures related to the transfer came to an end (May 1997) and the Management Board will assess the staff situation at the end of 1997.
30 July 1997 In progress 6 September 1997 30 October 1997 460 calendar days 10 May 1999 at the latest 26. The expectations are that the results of this investigation will not have consequences for the Centre.
27. As explained, a new extensive call for interest has been undertaken with success.
28. This situation has been improving over the last years and this trend hopefully willcontinue in 1997.
29. The Centre did its utmost, and will continue to do so, to ensure that it will have a high-quality new building and to maintain good value for good money.
The cost of the new building could be less than the initial estimates.
The prospects are positive (see paragraph 23).
The Commission has adopted a proposal for a Council Regulation (EC) on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security to employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community (COM(95) 347 final — C 393/10 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements and management for the financial year 1996 of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation), approved by the replies of the Foundation (97/C 393/02) CONTENTS The financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year 1996 AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background Scope of the audit Financial data Follow-up of previous observations Separation of durations Imprest account Transfers of acceptances between titles Mission expenses Study contracts Budgetary implementation and the return and expenditure account Transfer of appropriations Carry-overs and cancellations of acceptances 11 Revenue Management of health and Table 1 Bilbao
29.12.97 [~~~N~1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/11 THE FINANCIAL STATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 1. This report is addressed to the Council and the European Parliament in conformity with Article 16 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (l) as amended by Article 1 (4) of Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 (2).
2. The Court has examined the financial statements of the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the financial year ended 31 December 1996.
In agreement with Article 1 (16) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76(4), the budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Administrative Board.
This responsibility included the drawing up and presentation of the financial statements in accordance with the financial provisions as provided for pursuant to Article 1 (52), (54) and (55) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 (3) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 (4).
3. The Court undertook its audit in accord with generally accepted international auditing standards, in so far as they are applicable in the Community context and, accordingly, carried out search tests of the accounting records and search other procedures as the Court deemed necessary in the circumstances.
4. In the opinion of the Court the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 1996 are reliable and the underlying transactions are, taken as a whole, legal and regular.
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS Introduction Background 5. The European Foundation for the Improvement in Living and Working Conditions (Dublin Foundation) was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (5) as a satellite body of the European Community with the task of contributing 'to the planning and establishment of better living and working conditions through action designed to increase and diffuse knowledge likely to assist this development'.
The Dublin Foundation shared operations in 1976.
Scope of the audit 6. The Court of Auditors has examined the accounts and financial management of the Dublin Foundation for the financial year 1996 in agreement with the commissions of the relevant regulations(6).
A review of the cooperation with the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao and Directorate-General V of the Commission in the area of health and safety was also carried out.
Financial data 7. Tables 1 and 2 summarize the financial statements of the Foundation.
Available estimates for the financial year 1996 to ECU 13.8 million.
Commitments entered into give rise to ECU 10.5 million in payments and ECU 3.1 million in carry-overs to the financial year 1997, the balance of ECU 0.2 million having been cancelled.
Approvals carried over from the previous year gave rise to ECU 2.9 million in payments and ECU 0.1 million in cancellations.
Table 3 attached to this report gives an analysis by title of the utilization of the approaches for the year and for those carried over from 1995.
Follow up of previous observations Separation of duties 8. There is still an inadequate separation of duties between the authorizing officer and the accounting officer (7), contravening Article 1 (15) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93amending Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76. Imprest account 9. Last year the Court recommended that the use of the imprest account be limited to upon or small exposures, where the risk of irregularities is comparatively low.
At the time of the audit in April 1997 a written definition of ongoing and small exposures still had not been established by the Foundation in consultation, with the Financial Controller.
Transfers of approvals between chapters 10. The Court welcomes the fact that no transfers of approvals between chapters were made during 1996.
The Court has criticalized search transfers in previous years (8).
Mission Expenses 11. Some improvements have been made to strengthen the controls and monitoring of the results of missions.
The Foundation should continue its efforts so as to ensure that:
C 393/12 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 — for all missions a report stating the times of meetings, persons met and the results of the meeting is prepared.
The report should be reviewed by a senior member of staff and filed centrally, — where possible, more than one meeting should be arranged during a mission to Brussels in order to avoid the same staff member going to Brussels on successful weeks, — other means of communication, including tele-conferencing, should be seriously opposed, especially when communicating with persons in Brussels already well known.
Study contracts 12. The audit team of the Court followed up last year's observation regarding delays in the submission of work by contractors.
The minutes of the program management meetings did not contain any evidence of a review of report deadlines.
A summary of the information supplied by the Foundation during the audit is showing in Table 4 and demonstrates the need for a formalization of follow-up procedures.
Management of health and safety Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The European Agency for Health and Safety at Work in Bilbao recommended its activities in September 1996.
'Health and safety' was in the Foundation's programme of work for 1996, but was replaced in the programme of work for 1997 with 'Health and well-being'.
There is an urgent need for a clear and detailed M emorandum of understanding (currently being negotiated) to be agreed on by both satellite agencies.
This should maximize cooperation and exclude any overlap in activities.
17. Formal contacts already exists at administrative level, notably through both directors attending the other's Administrative Board meetings as an observer.
Links need to be extended to the research manager level in order to ensure full coordination.
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. Directorate F of DG V, 'Public Health and Safety at Work', makes use of some of the Foundation's research within this specialized field.
While maintaining the present independence of the Foundation's Administrative Board, there is a need to make more effective to ensure that its output is as useful as possible to DG V/F in terms of content and timing.
DG V/F is unable to attend all meetings concerning specific study contracts.
It would therefore be useful to hold periodic meetings at which the whole range of studies which may concern DG V/F can be discussed.
Conclusion 19. There is an inadequate separation of duties between accounting officer and authorizing officer (see paragraph 8).
20. The use of the imprest account should be regularized (see paragraph 9).
21. Controls over mission expenditure and the monitoring of study contracts should be tightened (see paragraphs 11 and 12).
22. Cooperation and communication with the Bilbao Agency and DG V/F in the fields of 'Health and safety at work' and 'Health and well-being' should be strengthened (see paragraphs 16 to 18).
Budgetary implementation and the expenditure account Transfer of appropriations revenue and 13. The value of transfers of appropriations between different budget lines in 1996 was ECU 1 366 000 (9.9% of appropriations entered into the budget), down from ECU 1 494 000 (11.?·%) in 1995.
Carry-overs and cancellations of approvals 14. Table 3 shows that the payment rate is 76% for the account as a whole, but only 55% for Title 3 Operating expenditure'.
This is in line with previous years and is due to the fact that studies are usually paid in three events over the period foreseen in their contracts.
Revenue 15. The EU subsidiary for the Foundation for 1996 was ECU 13.4 million.
The amount actually requested and received was ECU 12 895 632.
The funds were requested as required by the Council Regulations and in line with a cash flow forecast, as previously recommended by the Court.
29.12.97 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities'C 393/13 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court's meeting of 12 and 13 November 1997.
(2) OJ L 181, 23.7.93, p. 13.
(4) OJ L 164, 24.6.76, p. 16.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 published on 30 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30.5.1975).
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 of 26 May 1975 (OJ L 139, 30.5.1975) on the creation of the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1947/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23.7.1993).
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1417/76 of l'June 1976 (OJ L 164, 24.6.1976) on the financial provisions applying to the Foundation, as amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1949/93 of 30 June 1993 (OJ L 181, 23.7.1993).
(7) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 8.
(8) Dublin Foundation annual report 1995, paragraph 10 and Dublin Foundation annual report 1994, paragraph 3.2.
For the European Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President
C 393/14 1 EN I - Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Assets 2. Sums to be recovered 3. Mission advances 4. Miscellaneous advances 5. Bank charges Cash accounts Bank account — ECU — Main (IR £) — Imprest (IR £) 1996 7106 1 5 5 1 38 337 3 9 2 440 794 204 1995 7106 1350 23 306 9 1 —' 1520 190 245 Liabilities 1996 (ECU 1 000) 1995 8 479 -2 040 — 18 306 224 3 012 751 10 750 Fixed assets 1. Buildings 2. Furniture Current assets 1. Stocks Fixed capital 10 484 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by 'the Dublin Foundation.
10 484 - ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER 1996 10 750 1. Own capital 8 695 2. Balance for the financial year - 2 8 8 3. Balance from the previous year - 2 040 Current liabilities Salary deductions 24 Revenue to be collected 336 Sums to be used ■ 209 Approvals carried over 3 098 Payments in progress 450
C 393/16 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Title 1. Staff expenditure 2. Administrative expenditure 3. Operational expenditure TABLE 3 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 — UTILIIZATION OF AVAILABLE APPROPRIATIONS Definitive 5 950 1 170 6 680 13 800 Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation.
Cancelled '50 (0.8) 16 (1.4) 130 (1.9) 196 (1.4) Available 28 177 2 807 3 012 Total The figures in brackets indicate the percentage of definitive or available approaches.
Year 1995 1996 Total contracts (') 110 62 Deadlines not observed (2) 57 42 Percentage (2)/(') 52 68 Payments 5 877 (98.8) 976 (83.4) 3 653 (54.7) Carry-overs 23 27 (96.4) 174 (98.3) 2 669 (95.1) 2 870 (95.3) Caitcelled 1 (3.6) 3 (1.7) 138 (4.9) 142 (4.7) 10 506 (76.1) 1996 Budget Carry-overs from 1995 Payments - (0.4) 178'(15.2) 2 897 (43.4) Total 172 99 58 (1) For 1996 only those contracts for which the contract deadline was prior to 31 January 1997 have been included.
(2) Only cases where reports were shown as received over one month after the deadline have j)een included.
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of data provided by the Dublin Foundation.
TABLE 4 FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 — RESPECT OF STUDY CONTRACT DEADLINES'(ECU 1 000)
29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/17 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS Separation of duties 8. The Foundation would ask the Court to note that the two functions of authorizing and accounting officers are carried out separately by different individuals: a residual problem of separation of duties is limited to data input to the accounting system.
This problem will be resolved when the Foundation contains delivery of a new system.
The Foundation is in contact with the Commission services with regard to the feasibility of the application of the Commission's Sincom 2 system to the Foundation's accounting requirements. ~ - Imprest account 9. During 1996 the Foundation's use of the imprest account was, in practice, in agreement with the recommendation of the Court, limited to ongoing or small expenses.
The Foundation, in June 1997 in consultation with the Financial Controller, established a written definition with regard to these expenses.
Mission expenses 11. In 1996, the Foundation further developed existing procedures with regard to mission reports.
This process will continue and will incorporate the suggestions of the Court.
The Foundation continuously looks to accept the optimum number of meetings during a particular mission.
The Court's comments regarding missions to Brussels are, however, noted.
Following the successful completion of a pilot scheme during 1996 the Foundation has now installed a tele-conferencing facility.
It is intended to review the utility of this facility at the end of a trial period at which time further decisions will be taken, based on a cost analysis, considering the value of acquiring more extensive and sophisticated video-conferencing equipment.
Study contracts 12. Although the minutes of the program management meetings have not recorded the situation on specific contract deadlines, search discussions on each contract take place at every meeting and approach action is taken.
With regard to search recording the Foundation is now establishing an improved system for formalization of follow-up procedures in order to present a more realistic picture.of the situation.
Coordination with the Bilbao Agency 16. The memorandum of Understanding currently under consideration is considered as a priority item by the Foundation.
The establishment of links at research-manager level has also shared.
These will be designed in line with any increase in activities undertaken by the Bilbao Agency.
Cooperation of the Foundation with DG V/F 18. The Foundation.is very cognisant of the need for its output to be relevant to the work of DG V. The Commission is represented on the Foundation's Administrative Board by the Deputy-Director-General of DG V. Various forms of working relations have been established with the Directors of DG V, including mutual participation in working groups as appropriate.
Specifically through the office of the Director of DG V/F the Foundation has regular contacts with officials in the various units within DG V/F. Presentation of aspects of the Foundation's work to DG V officials is provided for within the Foundation's operational activities.
The Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work in Luxembourg is also kept informed of the Foundation's program and its results.
More generally there is a flow of relevant documentation from the Foundation to DG V •in relation to the results of the work programs.
The Court's acknowledgement that DG V/F is frequently unable to attend meetings related to specific study contracts is noted.
The Foundation is fully open to alternative proposals from DG V/F with regard to utilization of the Foundation's output.
C 393/18 I EN [Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEÄ, London) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/03) 1.1.
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, pursuant to Article 57 (10) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 of 22 July 1993 (*).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products for the financial year 1996.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the Executive Director in agreement with Article 57 (7) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 (l).
His responsibilities include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (2) in agreement with thé internal financial provisions provided for in Article 57 (11) of Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court of Auditors to audit these accounts.
The Court conducted its audit in accord with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are appropriate to the Community context.
It examined the account books and records and carried out search additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary.
The financial statements concerning the financial year 1996 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions as a whole are guaranteed.
MAIN OBSERVATIONS CONCERNING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE EVALUATION OF MEDICAL · PRODUCTS (EMEA, LONDON) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budgetary accounts 1.5.
The Agency's budgetary accounts do not enable the principal of the inviolability of the accounts to be guaranteed, as a posteriori modifications are possible and undetectable.
Furthermore, the accounts do not make it possible to detect cases of spending in excess of available approaches.
The current system does not allow the authorizing officer to input accounting data (proposals for commitments and payment orders) to the computer.
These data are recorded by the accounting officer in the accounts for the record (temporary freezing) before being approved by the Financial Controller.
This practice does not provide accurate information on the accounts in real time.
As the Sincom 2 system, which is supposed to replace the present accounting system, is not yet operational, an alternative solution should preferably be sown without delay.
General accounts — analytical 1.7.
The general accounts software that is currently used is insufficient for the Agency's needs and is separate from the budgetary accounts system.
Furthermore, the Agency has no system of analytical accounts, which is however indispensable if one wishes to establish when the scale of fees laid down by the Council (3) adequately covers the costs of evaluation.
Use of appropriation.
1.8. The approvals carried forward from 1995 to 1996 totaled ECU 5.9 million.
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million (29 %) was cancelled.
ECU 0.9 million of 1995 approvals made available for use but not used in 1996 were also cancelled. 1.9.
Only 79.6% of current appropriations (ECU 22.6 million before the SAB and ECU 17.9 million after a reduction made following the adoption of an amending budget) were implemented and 20.7% were cancelled (ECU 4.7 million).
The main reason for this was the impossibility of recruiting staff in good time (only 65 % of the posts for which provision had been made); a second reason was the reduction in license applications and in the corresponding studies.
1.10. The approvals carried forward from 1996 to 1997 totaled ECU 4.8 million.
Of this amount, ECU 1.7 million and ECU 2.8 million concerned Titles II (administrative expenditure) and III (operational expenditure).
In the case of Title II, ECU 1.1 million concerned purchases of equipment based on new technology.
In the case of Title III, ECU 1.3 million concerns to be paid to the inspectors during examinations (started in 1996 and completed in 1997) and ECU 0.8 million was for orphan drugs.
29.'
12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/19 Imprest account 1.11.
Contrary to accounting principles, a loss of ECU 0.02 million in 1994 was listed under expenditure to be settled in 1995 and 1996. ^ Revenue; subsidies; own resources 1.12.
The total révenue actually collected, i.e. ECU 18,4 million, represents 81 % of the amount for which the budget initially provided.
The fees collected to ECU 7 million.
Only 73% of the amount initially provided for could be collected and checked.
The balance sheet shows ECU 0.9 million of fees due that have not yet been validated and established in accordance with Article 5 (3) of the Agency's Financial Regulation. 1.14.
In 1997, the Agency adopted a new computer system for revenue.
This system will be examined during the next Court audit.
This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997.
0 OJ L 214, 24.';
8. 1993, p. 18.
(2) Pursuant to Article 57 (9) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 the accounts for all the Agency's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 26 March 1997, on which date they were signed by the Executive Director of the Agency and forwarded to the Commission, the Management Board and the Court of Auditors.
These accounts were received by the Court on 31 March 1997.
The short fornì of these financial statements is presented in the tables annexed to this report.
(3) OJ L 35, 15.2.1995.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President C 393/20 1 EN  
Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 Subtotal Subtotal 988 Subtotal 756 10 074 10 830 13 711 Subtotal
29. 12. 97 1 EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/21 TABLE 2 REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT FOR THE 1995 AND 1996 FINANCIAL YEARS Revenue Subsidy received from the Commission Fees Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff — Budget Title I Payments Approvals carried over Total revenue 1996 11 000 7 004 372 18 376 6 593 263 2 858 1698 3 650 2 811 138 18 011 365 1 551 2 667 4 583 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 10150 3 210 299 13 659 3 594 243 3 039 5 660 0 10 97 12 643 1016 535 1551 Buildings, equipment and various administrative expenses — Budget Title II Payments Approvals carried over Operating expenses —.
Budget Title III Payments Approvals carried over Miscellaneous expenses not included in budget Payments to be recovered Expenditure to be charged Exchange losses Outturn for the financial year Balance carried over from previous year Approvals carried over from previous year, cancelled Total expenses Balance to be carried over Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
In the absence of a commercial computerized system which meets the requirements of the Financial Regulation and until the new SI2 system, developed by the Commission, which the Agencies are in the process of adapting to their needs, is available, the Agency is managing its budget accounts using Excel software.
This software ensures that the information required for the sound management of the budget is always available and it provides the Agency's management with information which is relevant and up-to-date.
The software verifiers budget approvals, commitments, orders, frozen approvals and payments.
The existing system indicates cases spending in excess of available approaches.
The supporting document for each entry in the budget system is the document signed by the authorizing officer.
It is approved by the Financial Controller and is processed by the accounts department.
It is true that the Agency's system is not yet completely computerized and, because it does not contain in its memory changes to entries, it does, in principle, allow changes to be made without any indication thereof appealing in the general accounts.
However, it should be noted that all commitments, cancellations, payment orders, etc. are prepared and classified in accordance with the rules, the relevant supporting documents being placed in an annex.
In the new system it will not be possible to make ex post fact changes without there being any indication thereof.
Like most of the Agencies, the EMEA expects that the work on the SI2 project will be completed in 1997 and that the system will be made available.
The new system will allow the general accounts to be better integrated with the budget accounts.
Together with the other Agencies, the EMEA issues an invitation to tender two years ago for compatible software; the result was disappointing.
The EMEA anticipates that the SI2 system, adapted to the needs of the Agency, will be available by the end of 1997.
1.7. On 5 February 1997 the Management Board adopted a report on the cost of operational activities, which was forwarded to the Commission.
The Agency is busy structuring its accounts system so as to include analytical accounts.
In addition, a pilot program for the electronic recording of activities has been started. 1.8.
The sum of ECU 0.9 million in 1995 approaches made available for use but not used in 1996 relays notably to Article 204 (fitting-out of premises).
As these approaches could not be transferred and as no significant fitting-out work was carried out in 1996, the sum in question was cancelled.
1.11. Article 5 of the Financial Regulation stipulates that expenditure for which authorization reaches the Financial Controller no later than 31 December, and for which the corresponding payments are made no later than the following 15 January, will be entered in the accounts for the financial year which is coming to a close.
Following the imprecise interpretation of these commissions in 1994 a sum of ECU 16 915,22. was imputed to the imprest account.
Following discussions with the Court's auditors the sum in question was settled in the 1997 accounts.
1.13. Even if, with more experience in the field, the Agency was able to improve its estimates of the volume of doses to be received, taking account also of the seasonal nature of their submission, the Agency would still be no more able in the future than it is at present to formulate, one year in advance, exact estimates of the plans of the pharmaceutical industry and thererefore of the amount which might be expected from fees.
These uncertainties mean that the Agency is required to pursue a cautious policy with regard to expenditure.
29.12.97 ΓΕΝ~
This report is addressed to the Budget Committee of the Office for Harmonization in the I nternal Market pursuant to Article 137 (2) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993 C).
The Court has examined the financial statements of the Office for Harmonization in the I nternal Market for the financial year 1996.
The budget was implemented under the responsibility of the President of the Office in accordance with the requirements of Article 119 (2) (c) of Regulation (EC) No 40/94 (2).
His responsibilities include the preparation and presentation of the accounts (3) in agreement with the internal financial rules, as provided for by Article 137 of Regulation (EC) No 40/94. Article 188c of the Treaty establishing the European Community requires the Court.of Auditors to audit these accounts.
The Court carried out its audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in so far as they are applicable in the Community context.
I t carried out tests on the account books and records and search' additional procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The main observations resulting from the Court's audit are set out in the second part of this report.
1.4. For the reasons indicated in paragraphs 1.8 to 1.12 (own revenue) the Court was unable to form an opinion as to when the accounts underlying the revenue shown in the financial statements are reliable.
Subject to the above reservations, the financial statements for the financial year 1996 are reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, assured.
MAIN OBSERVATI ONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE OFFI CE FOR HARMONI ZATI ON I N THE I NTERNAL MARKET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget accounts 1.6.
Although 1996 is the Office's third year of activity, the accounts department of the Office still does not have proper budget accounting software.
Monitoring the implementation of the budget is carried out with the aid of a tool which is not a real accounting system (changes may be made to entries with no subsequent record of their having been made, absence of any link to the general accounts, etc.). 1.7.
The Office does not possess any system of analytical accounting, which is, however, indispensable for the purpose of establishing the real cost of services rendered.
Own revenue 1.8.
Before the entry into service, in May 1996, of the system set up to monitor the charges associated with the filling of trade marks (Euromarc), two alternative systems had been used temporarily to monitor applications for trade-mark registrations.
The risk that is inherent in the transfer of data from these contemporary systems to Euromarc is high and the Court was there impossible to form an opinion as to whether or not such transfers were complete.
The Office was not able to demonstrate that the Euromarc system was functionally compliant to the description it had given.
The Court is, therefore, not in a position to state with certainty that the reliability of the system is assured.
The new description drawn up by the Office reached the Court too late for it to be able to carry out the additional work that was necessary to remove this uncertainty.
For reasons which are mainly due to the unwieldinness of Euromarc and the complexity of the THE regulations, long delays in dealing with applications were observed.
Some clients complicated to the Office on this account.
Moreover, the accumulated delay prevented the entry of more than ECU 12.4 million of revenue out of a total of ECU 45,9 million in receipts.
The difference, i.e. ECU 33,5 million, was entered under liabilities and show on the balance sheet as 'advances from clients'.
Of this amount, ECU 4.7 million was made up of payments that could not be linked to the related trade-mark applications.
Bearing in mind that new payments arrive every day, these old transactions must be identified as a matter of urgency.
C 393/24 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 ACPC 1.12.
The Office's ACPC was not created until 1 April 1996.
Several contracts for which the opinion of the ACPC would have been required, had. already been approved by the Office on the basis of an Operating Report' approved, in some cases, by a note from the legal department, concerning the regularity of the procedure followed.
Search notes can, under no circumstances, replace the opinion of the ACPC.
Approvals carried over; cancellations; transfers 1.13.
Approvals carried over to 1997 totaled ECU 14,5 million (total automatic carry-overs), i.e. 44,8 % of the total of ECU,32,4 million of approvals for the financial year.
These approaches carried forward originated in the large volume of trade-mark applications which had not been processed at the end of the year.
The total of current approaches which was lapsed was ECU 5.6 million, i.e. 17.3% of the estimates for the financial year.
As far as the approvals carried over from the financial year L995 are concerned ECU 4.65 million, i.e. 14.6%, lapsed (ECU 0.68 million).
Transfers of permits to ECU 7.6 million.
The. totals quotad, as well as the approaches carried over to the financial year 1997 and the volume of revenue received, show the uncertainty of the budget estimates for the financial year 1996.
An amendment of the initial budget estimates should have been made during the financial year.
Buildings 1.16.
The Office continues to occupy a building extending to the Spanish authorities and placed at its disposal free of charge.
However, no contract exists in this respect.
As far as the final location is concerned, the Office has opened negotiations in respect of a proposed acquisition and has entered an initial amount in the budget for supervisory work.
1.17. It must be emphasized that the Office must ensure that the necessary approaches are available before a legal commitment is entered into.
(2) OJ L 11, 14.1.1994 p. 30.
(3) Pursuant to Article 137 (1) of Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94, the accounts of all the Office's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 1996 were drawn up on 21 February 1997.
These accounts were received by the Court on 25 February 1997.
The short form of these financial statements is to be found in the tables annexed to this report.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President 29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/25 Fixed assets Fixed capital Installations and furniture Movable equipment Computer equipment Intangible assets Current assets Subtotal Capital 0 2 412 Balance for the year (4 318) Securities and guarantees received 3 Other long-term liabilities 43 Subtotal (2) (1 860) Current liabilities Automatic carry-overs of 14 517 approvals Revenue for use 69 Institutions 478 Sundry accounts due 35 Balance of Commission subsidiary (3) 6 289 VAT and charges to be recovered 429 Advances from clients 33 511 Subtotal 55 328 Total liabilities 53 468 Commission subsidiary Sundry accounts recoverable VAT and charges to be recovered.
Cash accounts Bank — current accounts Imprest account Subtotal Subtotal Total assets "1996 383 48 1 890 91 2 412 6 289 42 429 6 760 44 291 5 44 296 53 468 1995 569 48 162 779 3 275 26 169 3 470 1 863 16 1 879 6128 Liabilities 1996. (ECU 1 000) 1995 779 478 2 43 1302 4 648 9 169 4 826 6 128 ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 (') This amount corresponds to total fixed assets.
(2) The negative total of the balance for the year and capital does not constitute a loss of capital.
It is the result of applying the Financial Regulation in respect of revenue (only revenue which has been collected) and expenditure (payments plus appropriation carried over).
(3) In the financial statements for the financial year 1995, the amount of Commission subsidiary still to be paid at the end of the financial year is listed as revenue.
With effect from the financial year 1996, in accordance with the regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities. '
Source: Drawn up-by the Court, on the basis of information supplied by the Office.
C 393/26 
With effect from the financial year 1996, in accordance with the Regulations, this amount is listed in the balance sheet under the liabilities..
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/27 REPLIES OF THE OFFICE FOR HARMONIZATION IN THE INTERNAL MARKET 1.4.
Own revenue The payment of the fees and charges associated with the filling and registration of a Community trade-mark is the final step in a longy procedure, which is laid down in Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of 20 December 1993.
Between the time a trade-mark application is filed and the time the corresponding charges are entered in the accounts there is usually an interval of two months, in the course of which the case is handled by at least three different types of staff.
The whole process is computerized and each category of staff involved is authorized to access the computer system which covers the budgets for which they are responsible.
In order to be able to cover in a limited amount of time (two to three days) all the days involved from receipt of application to entry in the accounts of the charges, it is absolutely essential that the cases selected at the outset receive priority treatment.
This is possible providing two conditions are met: 1. that a single user is authorized, temporarily and by way of exception, to have access to all computer systems required to complete all the stages, up to entry in the accounts, and 2. that the demonstration of the accelerated procedure takes place in a test environment in order that there may be all the flexibility of use required without the production base being contaminated.
During the visit of the auditors in February 1997 it was not possible to carry out such a demonstration in the time available for technical reasons.
Measures have already been put in place to ensure that a complete presentation of the revenue payment system can be made during the auditor's visit which is planned for October 1997.
Budget accounts Like the other Agencies, the OHIM is waiting the final version of the Sincom 2 budget accounting software.
This software thought to be available towards the end of 1997.
Once the OHIM receives the software, it will be broken into use over a period of a few months.
Analytical accounts The Office will start to establish analytical accounts for certain areas of activity at the beginning of 1998, when it will have a sufficiently broad and stable production base in certain sectors to be able to establish realistic standards.
Own revenue — change of system While changing over to the final system for monitoring applications and charges, the Office verified extremely thoroughly that the data transferred were consistent.
Moreover, bank reconciliations confirmed the results of the transfer.
The Office there consider that the transfer was carried out correctly.
1.9 — 1.10.
System for the payment of charges See reply to paragraph 1.4.
Delay hi the identification/entry of payments On account of the large number of applications received in 1996 (43 000 rarer than the 15 000 anticipated), the Office built up a certain backlog in 1996 in the entry of application charges.
The Office has now almost caught up with this backlog.
As regards the ECU 4,7 million made up of non-identified payments, the situation has been rectified since March 1997, as intended and explained to the Court's auditors.
At present, the time-lag between the receipt of acheque by the OHIM and its identification and transfer to the bank is six days.
C 393/28 ΓΕΝ~1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 1.13 ACPC The ACPC began operating as soon as the Office's Financial Regulation and the implementing rules applicable to the Financial Regulation, which govern the composition of the ACPC, entered into force.
Before the creation of the ACPC the OHI M had no alternative but to follow the procedure which it did, namely to consult the legal department in respect of contracts exceeding a threshold of ECU 42 000, in order to ensure that the procurement procedure was in accord with the rules applicable to the conclusion of public contracts.
In the case of sizeable contracts, the OHI M was completed during this transitional period to use the contracts of the other institutions and of the Commission in particular, in order to benefit from the legal guarantee attached to such contracts and the economies of scale which need to result.
Approvals carried over A relative large amount of approvals were carried over in 1996.
80% of the carry-overs in question related to procedural expenditure (searches/translation/publication, etc.).
In agreement with Article 29 of the Financial Regulation, the Office must commit the procedural expenditure arising from Council Regulation (EC) No 40/94 on the Community trade-mark the moment application charges are entered in the accounts.
This is effectively unavoidable expenditure, the implementation of which is directly linked to the collection of the application charges.
Clearly, during this start-up phase, taking into account the fact that the number of applications was much higher than anticipated (+ 280 %), the discrepancy between the commitment of procedural expenditure and the actual implementation of the procedures in question is much greater than normal operation.
This situation is progressively being regularized; in 1997 approaches carried over in respect of procedural expenditure will be significantly less.
Lapsed approaches/transfers of approaches The 1996 budget was drawn up at the end of June 1994 and submitted to the Budgetary Authority in February 1995.
At that stage, there was nothing to suggest that the OHIM would be faced with such a number of trade-mark applications.
In June and September 1996 the OHI M informed its Budget Committee of how the situation was developing, drawing its intention to the budgetary consequences.
It should be noted that some of the.lapsed approaches come under Chapter 1 1 and relate in particular to Heading 1 1 3 3 (Constitution or maintenance of pension rights for temporary staff) (ECU 1 031 000).
These approaches were entered in the budget at the request of the Commission in order to cover the employees' contribution to pensions paid to staff (it was said that this entry was contrary to the staff regulations).
I n the mean time, the Commission has indicated that no pension fund exists and that no amount is due as an employee's contribution.
As regards the other lapsed approaches, they are essentially approaches related to procedural expenditure for which it was impossible to make commitments in 1996 due to paint of time.
Building There is no lease contract between the Spanish authorities and the OHI M. for the later's occupation of its temporary seat at 20 Avenida de Aguilera.
There is, however, a document entitled 'Acte de remise des clés du siège prosesoire' (Deed of delivery of keys to the temporary seat), which was signed on 25 February 1994 by the Cosoami and the OHIM and which provides for the OHI M to occupy the temporary seat until it is able to occupy the final seat.
Final seat The OHI M has taken note of the Court's observation concerning the availability of approaches for the acquisition of the final seat.
Its Budget Committee has, however, approved the acquisition of the first phase of the final seat by means of bank loan financing.
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/29 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Environment Agency (EEA, Copenhagen) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/05) 1.1.
This report is addressed to the Management Board of the European Environment Agency, pursuant to Article 13 (4) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90 of 7 May 1990 (l).
The Court of Auditors has examined the financial statements of the European Environment Agency for the financial year 1996.
The Court carried out tests on the account books and records and also search additional auditing procedures as it considered necessary in this context.
The observations set out in paragraphs 1.6 to 1.15 show that there are accounting practices in use at the Agency which are not consistent with the regulations.
There are also certain amounts for which no regulation could be given.
Subject to the above reservations, the Agency's financial statements for the financial year 1996 are - reliable and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions are, on the whole, guaranteed. of accounts.
No search reconciliation was made during the financial year 1996.
Furthermore, for the financial year 1996, such reconciliation was complicated by the consolidation of a substantial proportion of the general account entries (the variable budget accounts were grouped into five major expenditure accounts in the general accounts; several non-budget entries concerning variable credit or debit operations in respect of staff were also grouped together in a single account in the general accounts).
Another weakness of this accounting system is the impossibility of checking a posteriori the level of approvals during the year and thus of ensuring that available approvals have not been exceeded.
1.8. Furthermore, it was noted that a balance of approximately ECU 0.02 million was shown on the balance sheet (sundry accounts payable) for which the Agency was unable to provide the Court with the appropriate supporting documents (see consolidation problem mented in paragraph 1.6).
The Agency's budget accounts are still behind and could not provide the authorizing officers and the Financial Controller with the information they need if the former are to commit themselves legally in respect of third parties and the later to give his approval to the proposals for commitments that are submitted to him.
For this reason, the Agency had to set up a parallel system for monitoring the implementation of the budget so as not to exceed available approaches, as it did during the previous financial year (see report on the implementation of the 1995 budget), and to enable the authorizing officers to check at all times the level of commitment of the approaches for which they are responsible (failure to observe Articles 58 and 59 of the implementing provisions for the Commission's Financial Regulation, which is also applicable to the EEA, as the Agency has not adopted its own implementing provisions).
As the Sincom 2 system is unlike to be available within a reasonable time, the Agency should preferably seek an alternative solution so as to have an effective accounting system at its disposal.
The methodology applied during the financial year 1996 combined neither with accounting rules nor with the MAIN OBSERVATIONS IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET OF THE EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENT AGENCY (EA, COPENHAGEN) FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Budget and general accounts 1.6.
The accounts continue to be kept on two different computerized accounting systems: commercial software is used for the general accounts and another tool is used for the budget accounts.
This double system would require regular (at least monthly) reconciliations of the two sets CONCERNING THE
C 393/30 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Communities' financial regulations and ultimately led to the financial statements (trial balance, balance sheet and revenue and expenditure account) being submitted after the deadlines had been expired.
1.12. The approach adopted by the Management Board for drawing up and submitting the financial statements is true not a relevant one.
1996 payments recorded in 1997 1.15.
Approvals carried over; contracts 1.18.
The percentage of acceptances carried forward This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRI EDMANN President
29. 12. 97 1 EN   
The Commission has adopted a proposal for a Council Regulation (EC) on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security (COM(95) 347 final) and on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security (COM(95) 347 final) (COM(95) 347 final)
29. 12. 97 I EN 
C 393/34 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 and the resulting efficiency, the Agency will use SI2 for its integrated and automated budget and accounting system.
29.12.97 Ε Ν Ι Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/35 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EDMC-Lisbon) (Financial year 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/06) 1.1.
THE Contracts and ACPC 1.12.
C 393/36 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 tender (sometimes in the absence of a preliminary invitation to interested parties to apply).
O OJL36.12.2.1993, p.6.
OJ L 341, 30.12.1994, p. 7.
C 393/38 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Commission subsidiary Commission subsidiary eligible Miscellaneous revenue Expenditure Staff — Title I.
29.12.97 [EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/39 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN MONITORING CENTRE FOR DRUG AND DRUG ADDICTION
C 393/40 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 1.16.
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/41 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Training Foundation (ETF-Turin) (Financial year 1996), together with the Foundation's replies (97/C 393/07) 1.1.
C 393/42 1 EN 
Awarding of contracts 1.12.
For the Court of Auditors Bernhard FRIEDMANN President ■29. 12. 97 1 EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/43 Assets 1996 Computers Equipment and furniture 544 1995 326 242 0 568 24 543 0 567 3398 3 398 4 533 Liabilities Fixed capital Own capital (') Net results Short ‚term liabilities 1996 1578 1794 3 372 665 431 3 288 350 56 432 4 9 45 5 280 8 652 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 568 1566 2 134 142 0 1985 195 75 0 0 0 2 399 4 533 Fixed assets Office supplies Current assets Sundry 776 Subsidiy (commission 1995) · 543 Subsidiy (commission 1996) 431 Substotal 986 Cash accounts Banks — current accounts 5 312 Imprest accounts
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/45 REPLIES OF THE EUROPEAN TRAINING FOUNDATION 1.5.
1.12.
C 393/46 Γ Ε Ν Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 be carried out for Tempus projects (Phare and Tacis) and Phare vocational training programmes.
29.12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/47 REPORT on the financial statements of the Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (TCBU-Luxembourg) (Financial years 1995 and 1996), together with the Centre's replies (97/C 393/08) 1.1.
C 393/48 I EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 years), these contributions are to be flat-rate and are to be calculated on the basis of each body's forecast of its translation needs.
OJ L 314, 7. 12. 1994, p. 3.
The following assets are outstanding outstanding 8 Subtotal 17 17 494 Current assets Contributions from clients (2) Subtotal Total liabilities from clients (2) Subtotal total liabilities (in ECU 1 000) 1995 334 334 334 320 320 468 468 768 788 1122 Equipment and furniture 9 Intangible fixed fixed assets 8 Subtotal 17 Current assets Contributions from clients 259 Sundry businesses accounts revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenue revenueable 7 Subtotal assets revenue revenueable 7 Subtotal assets 2 7 Subtotal assets 266 Cash accounts Banks — current assets 1 8 Subtotal 17 Current assets Contributions from clients 259 Sundry assets (in ECU 1 000) 1995 334 334 334 334 320 468 768 788 788 1122 Equipment and furniture 9 Intangible fixed assets 8 Subtotal 17 Current assets Contributions from clients 259 Sundry assets (in ECU 1 000) 1995 334 334 334 334 320 468 788 1122 Equipment and furniture 9 Intangible fixed assets 8 Subtotal 17 Current assets 17 Current assets Contributions from clients from clients 259 Sundry assets (in ECU 1 000) 1995 Total total assets rece 259 Sunny total revenue revenue revenue revenue 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 Subtotal 7 Subtotal 7 Subtotal 2 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 12 1 266 266 266 266 Cash 266 Cash 266 Cash 266 Cash 266 Cash 266 Cash 266 Cash Cash Account Bank Bank Bank Bank Bank Bank Bank Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks Banks — Current 9 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9
ΓΕΝΗ Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Revenue Various revenue Own revenue Recoverable revenue (λ) Expenditure Staff — Title I Payments Approvals carried over Total revenue TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEARS 1995 AND 1996 " 1996 90 2 703 2 793 1 155 905 (in ECU 1 000) 1995 12 1095 198 1305 181 393 2 395 971 334 334 Buildings, equipment, etc. — Title I Payments 88 Approvals carried over out for the financial year Outturn from previous financial year Approvals carried over and cancelled.
29.12.97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/51 REPLIES OF THE TRANSLATION CENTRE FOR THE BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION Budgetary accounts 1.5.
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/53 This report was adopted by the Court of Auditors in Luxembourg at the Court meeting of 15 and 16 October 1997. (') OJ L 227, 1. 9. 1994, p. 27.
C 393/54 I EN 
29. 12. 97 I EN.
C 393/56 EN Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPLIES OF THE COMMUNITY PLANT VARIETY OFFICE The main points raised by the Court in this document on the execution of the budget for these years relate to the absence of: — effective IT for general and budgetary accounting, — a formal Financial Controller, a Consultative Committee on Procurement and Contracts.
29. 12. 97 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/57 President of the Council had to stand in as'mandataire', (b) no relevant purchase or tendering exercise exceeded the threshold set under the Financial Regulation of the Commission.
C 393/58 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 REPORT on the financial statements of the European Agency for Health and Safety at Work (EAHS-Bilbao) (Financial year 1996), together with the Agency's replies (97/C 393/10) 1.1.
29. 12. 97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/59 were also delays in the recruitment of the persons who make up the Agency's basic staff.
C 393/60 I EN 1 Official Journal of the European Communities 29. 12. 97 Fixed assets Fixed capital equipment and furniture Computer equipment Liquid assets Sundry accounts recoverable Recoverable VAT and duties Own funds (l) Balance for the financial year Short-term liabilities Subtotal Cash accounts Banks — current Imprest acount account Subtotal Subtotal Total assets 34 16 50 1 9 7 5 100 2 075 2 157 Approvals carried over by the Budgetary Authority Automatic carry-overs Sundry 'accounts due Assets 1996 25 7 Subtotal -32 Liabilities (in ECU 1 000) 1996 32 83 / 86 234 969 76 161 2 9 5 2 157 (') This amount corresponds to the fixed assets.
Source:' Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
ANNEX TABLE 1 BALANCE SHEET FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 1996 Recoverable V A T and duties Subtotal Total liabilities
29.12.97 I EN I Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/61 TABLE 2 BALANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR.1996 Total revenue (ECU 1 000) 1996 3 000 36 3 036 292 81 884.
6 3 0 319 2 206 830 830 Revenue Commission subsidiary Sundry revenue Expenditure Staff — Title I Payments Buildings, equipment, etc. — Title II Payments Approvals carried over Operating expenditure — Title III Payments.
Approvals carried over Outturn for the financial year Source: Prepared by the Court on the basis of the Agency's data.
Total expenditure Balance for the financial year
C 393/62 1 EN 
The Director presented the objectives, programs and activities carried out, under way or planned.
In order to facilitate the work of the Court, the accounts and all relevant supporting documents were made available to the Court.
The personnel files and the contracts concluded were also presented.
The Court forwarded its preliminary comments with a view to drawing up the report on the financial statements of the Agency (financial year 1996) in its letter No 001594 of 15 July 1997.
The Agency, which welcomes the conclusions drawn in paragraph 1.4 of the Court of Auditors' draft report, in so far as the Court states that the financial statements for the financial year 1996 were reliable and, on the whole, the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions were guaranteed, would like to comment on the following paragraphs.
Paragraph 1.5.
The breakdown is incomplete because when the budget was being drawn up in 1995 it was not possible to plan in detail the budgetary requirements for the financial year 1996 and to include specific amounts; this was due to the fact that the Agency was in its start-up phase.
As a result, 'token entry' was entered in most chapters.
Paragraph 1.6.
It is true that there is no documentary evidence to show that the Administrative Board of the Agency approved the amendments to the initial budget for 1996.
In order to avoid a similar situation in the future it was agreed, at the meeting of the Bureau of the Administrative Board on 5 and 6 June 1997, that the minutes of meetings would include, in addition to the account of the discussions at meetings, a document explaining the formal decisions taken, in order to facilitate their retrieval.
Paragraph 1.7.
The Agency does not consider suitable software for its budgetary accounts and it is provisionally using Excel.
In order to come over this, the Agency has joined forces with the other Agencies to analyse the feasibility of an integrated software package such as the prototype of the beta version of SI2 provided by the European Commission.
Moreover, the Agency is following with interest the progress of the software being developed by Cedefop in Salonika, which would appear to meet our needs as it undertakes a budgetary and accounting management modules as well as human resource management modules..
The Bilbao Agency will take a decision before the end of the year on the installation of one system or another, depending on the results of tests using both systems and the opinion of the supervisory bodies.
The Agency is doing all it can to improve the administration of its imprest account and in September 1997 installed the RAI software with the assistance of the EMCDDA in Lisbon.
Paragraph 1.8.
In order to make good the deficiency described by the Court of Auditors, the Agency acquired Cubic software in June 1997 which, the training of the competent staff having been completed, is already being used to keep the general accounts.
Paragraph 1.9.
It is true that the implementation of the budget for 1996 was adversely affected by the delay in the recruitment of the Director and staff for the administration unit of the Agency.
The said staff were only recruited in May 1997, when the head of the unit and two assistants (a computer expert and a financial officer) took up their posts.
This means that the gradual introduction of all the systems necessary to ensure sound financial management (staff management, budgetary and accounting management, conclusion of contracts and general services) did not begin until after the said date.
Paragraph 1.10.
At the time of the negotiations on the seat of the Agency the Basque Government and the County of Vizcaya committed themselves to pay 75 % of the cost of the rent of the office building occurred by the Agency.
Despite the
29. 12. 97 1 EN Official Journal of the European Communities C 393/63 absence of an agreement signed between the Agency and the Basque authorities to this effect, the Basque Government has, as of September 1997, paid the Agency a subsidiary of Pta 20 million and the County of Vizcaya has initiated the necessary procedures for the payment of its subsidiary of Pta 10 million.
Paragraph 1.11.
In agreement with the commissions of its Financial Regulation, the Agency is doing all it can to make good the deficiencies pointed out out by the Court of Auditors as regards public contracts and has recently submitted a draft Regulation for the creation of an ACPC for the opinion of the Financial Controller at the Commission and to the Court of Auditors for information; the Regulation is based, as far as possible, on the models adopted by the other Agencies.
As regards the contracts for the procurement of goods and services included by the Agency, notably since the audit conducted by the Court in May 1997, it should be pointed out that invitations to tender have always been attended, even where the value of the estimated expenditure would have allowed private security.
The Agency would like to ensure the Court that it is doing all it can to acquire, as quickly as possible, all the means necessary to carry out the improvements indicated by the Court of Auditors.
It would ask the Court to take account of the differences it has had in its start-up phase in respecting in full the rules arising from Financial and other regulations to which all its activities should be subject.
NOTICE TO READERS In 1998 several changes to the Official Journal (OJ) L & C subscription will be introduced.
This notice aims to help paying subscribers make an informed choice about the new opportunities.
EU LAW SERVICE Starting in January 1998, the full text (including tables and graphics) of new editions of the OJ L & C will be available in all 11 languages free of charge on the Internet (http://europa.eu.int) for a period of 20 days.
OJ L&C CD-ROM In 1998 a CD-ROM version of the OJ L & C will be published in quarterly, cumulative, single-language editions.
Current subscribers to the OJ L & C who purchase the CD-ROM subscription in addition to the paper or microfiche version or CELEX will benefit from a promotional discount of 50% on the CD-ROM.
A LAN option will be available.
Individual copies of each CD-ROM can also be purchased.
FLAT FEE SUBSCRIPTION TO CELEX In Spring 1998 a flat fee subscription to CELEX will be available, offering one year's access at a fixed price (960 ECU), independent of consumption.
CELEX is the EU's official legal database offering unparallel coverage of EU legislation since 1951 (http://europa.eu.int/celex).
PENALTIES FOR LATE RENEWALS OF PAPER SUBSCRIPTION Despatch of the paper version of the OJ L & C will be stopped on 31 January 1998 to all paying subscribers who have not renewed their subscription by then.
Subscribers starting or renewing a subscription to the OJ L & C after this date may choose: (i) not to receive retrospective dispatch of missing editions, and pay only for months received; (ii) to receive the CD-ROM version of the missing editions, and pay the normal annual subscription fee; (iii) to receive the paper version of the missing editions, and pay double for each month requiring retrospective dispatch.
Please note it is now possible to purchase all versions of subscription to the Official Journal L & C (paper, microfiche, off-line and CELEX) from any member of the EUR,-OP sales networks, except document delivery agents.
Please contact your sales agent for further details on the above.
Price ECU 'L + C' paper version η 700------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(32-2) 552 22 11 Fax (32-2) 511 01 84 Jean De Lannoy Avenue du Roi 202/ Koningslaan 202 B-1060 Bruxelles/Brussels Tél.
(32-2) 538 51 69 Fax (32-2) 538 08 41 E-mail: jean.de.lannoy @ infoboard.be Librairie européenne/ Europese Boekhandel Rue de la Loi 244/ Wetstraat 244 B-10940 Bruxelles/Brussels Tél.
(32-2) 295 26 39 Fax 32-2) 735 08 60 DANMARK J. H. Schultz Information A/S Herstedvang 10-112 DK-2620 Albertslund Tlf.
(45) 43 63 23 00 Fax (45) 43 63 19 69 E-mail: schultz@schultz.dk URL: www.schultz.dk GERMANY Bundesanzeiger Verlag Breite Straße 78-80 P.O. Box 10 05 34 D-50667 Cologne Tel.
(49)221)20 29)0 Fax 49)221 20 29 278 GREECE/ΕΑΑΔΑ G.C. Eleftheroudakis SA International Bookstore Panepistimiou 17 GR)105 64 Athens Tel.
(30)33141 80/1/2/3 Fax (30) 323 98 21 E-mail: elebooks@netor.gr Γ.Κ. Ελευθερουδάκης AE Διεθνς Βιβλιοπωλείο Πανεπιστημίου 17 GR-105 64 Αβηνσ Τηλ.
30-313314180/1/2/3 Τ-λεφα- (30-31 ) 323 98 21 ESPANA Mundi Prensa Libros, SA Castellò, 37 E-28001 Madrid Tel.
(34) 431 33 99/431 32 22 Fax (34) 575 39 98 E-mail: mundiprensa@tsai.es URL: www.tsai.es/mprensa Boletin Oficlal del Estado Trafalgar, 27-29 E-28071 Madrid Tel.
(34) 488 34 92 Fax (347 487 76 59 FRANCE Journal officiel Service des publications des CE 26, rue Desaix F
(33) 40 58 77 01/31 Fax 33-41 40 58 77 00 IRELAND Government Supplies Agency Publications Section 4-35 Harcourt Road Dublin 2 Tel.
(353-3) 661 31 11 Fax 353-31 475 27 60 ITALIA Licosa SpA Via Duca di Calabria, 1/1 Casella postale 552 1-50125 Firenze Tel.
(39)55)64 54 15 Fax (39)55 64 12 57 E-mail: licosa@ftbcc.it URL: icl382.cilea.it/Virtual_Library/ bibliot/vetrina/licosa/tt1.htm GRAND-DUCHÉ DE LUXEMBOURG Messageries du livre Sari 5, rue Raiffeisen L-2411 Luxembourg Tél.
(352)40 10 20 Fax (352) 490 661 E-mail: mdl@pt.lu Subscriptions: Messageries Paul Kraus 11, rue Christophe Plantin L such 2339 Luxembourg Tél.
AUSTRIA Manz'sche Verlags and Universitâtsbuchhandlung Gmbh Siebenbrunnengasse 21 P.O. Box 1 A.1050 Vienna Tel.
(43)53 161 334/340 Fax (43) 53 161 339 E-mail: ausdelivery@manz.co.at URL: www.austria.EU.net:81/manz PORTUGAL Imprensa Nacional,Casa da Moeda, EP Rua Marques de Sä da Bandeira, 16 A Ρ-1050 Lisboa Codex Tel.
(351-) 495 90 50/495 87 87 Fax (351-) 496 02 55 SUOMI/FINLAND Akateemlen Kirjakauppa / Akademiska Bokhandeln Pohjoiseplanadi 39/ Norra esplanaden 39 PL/PB 128 FIN-00101 Helsinki/Helsingfors Tel.
358-99 121 41 Fax (358-99) 121 44 35 E-mail: akatilaus@stockmann.mailnet.fi URL: booknet.cultnet.fi/aka/index.htm SVERIGE BTJAB Tractor Vagen 11 PO Box 200 S-22100 Lund Tel.
(46)18 00 00 Fax (46) 18 01 25 E-mail: btj_tc@mail.btj.se URL: www.btj.se/media/eu UNITED KINGDOM The Stationery Office Ltd (Agency Section) 51, Nine Elms Lane London SW8 5DR Tel.
(44-)873 9090 Fax (44-)71 873 8463 URL: www.tne-stationery-office.co.uk ICELAND Bokabud Larusar Blondal Skólavördustig, 2 IS-101 Reykjavik Tel. (354-55 15 650 Fax (354-55 25 560 NORGE NIC Info A/S Ostenioveien 18 Boks 6512 E terstad N-0606 Oslo Tel.
(47) 97 45 00 Fax (47) 97 45 45 SWITZERLAND/SUISSE/SVIZZERA OSEC Stampfenbachstraße 85 CH-8035 Zurich Tel.
(41)365 53 15 Fax (41) 365 54 11 E-mail: urs.leimbacher® ecs.osec.inet.ch URL: www.osec.ch CESKA RE PUBLICA NIS CR 
(42) 24 22 94 33 Fax (42) 24 22 94 33 E-mail: nkposp@dec.nis.cz' URL: www.nis.cz CYPRUS Cyprus Chamber Of Commerce & Industry 38, Grivas Digenis Ave Mail orders: PO Box 1455 CY-1509 Nicosia Tel.
(357-) 44 95 00/46 23 12 Fax (357-) 361 044 E-mail: cy1691_eic_cyprus@vans. infonet.com MAGYARORSZAG Euro Info Service Europa Hâz Margitsziget PO Box 475 H的1396 Budapest 62 Tel.
(36)11 16 061/11 16 216 Fax (36) 302 50 35 E-mail: euroinfo@mail.matav.hu URL: www.euroinfo.hu/index.htm MALTA Miller Distributors Ltd Malta International Airport PO Box 25 LOA 05 Malta Tel.
(356) 66 44 88 Fax (356) 67 67 99 POLSKA Ars Polona Krakowskie Przedmiescie 7 Skr. pocztowa 1001 PL-00-950 Warszawa Tel.
(48)26 12 01 Fax (48) 26 62 40 TURKIYE Dunya Infotel A.S. Istiklâl Cad.
(90)92122 251 91 96 (90)92122 427 02 10 Fax (90)92122 251 91 97 BALGARIJA Europress
(1-613)741 73 33 Fax (1-613) 741 54 39 E-mail: renouf@fox.nstn.ca URL: fox.NSTN.Ca/-renouf EGYPT The Middle E ast Observer 41, Sherif Street Tel.
(81)3234 69 21 Fax (81) 3234 69 15 E-mail: psijapan@gol.com URL: www.psi)japan.com SOUTH AFRICA Safto 5th Floor Export House, CNR Maude & West Streets PO Box 782 706 2146 Sandten Tel.
(27)883 37 37 Fax (27)883 65 69 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Bernan Associates 4611)F Assembly Drive MD20706 Lanham Tel.
(301) 459 2255 (toll free telephone) Fax (800) 865 3450 (toll free fax) E-mail: query@beman.com URL: www.beman.com MEXICO Mundl-Prensa Mexico, SA de CV RioPânuco, 141 Delegación Cuauhtemoc ME-06500 México DF Tel.
(52) 553 56 58/60 Fax (52) 514 67 99 E-mail: 104164.23compuserve.com RÉPUBLIQUE DE CORÉE Kyowa Book Company 1 F1.
OTHER COUNTRIES Please address yourself to the sales office of your choice 95 (Libras)/ 15 (Suscrpciones) 49 (Libras)/ 14 (Suscripciones) Euromedia Str.
(40) 210 44 01/614 06 64 Fax (40) 210 44 01/312 96 46 SLOVAKIA Slovenska Technicka Kniznica Nàmestie slobody 19 SLO-81223 Bratislava 1 Tel.
(42) 53 18 364 Fax (42) 53 18 364 E-mail: eurap@tbb1.sltk.stuba.sk SLOVENIA Gospodarski Vestnik Zalozniska skupina d.d.
(386)61 133 03 54 Fax (386) 61 133 91 28 E-mail: belicd@gvestnik.si URL: www.gvestnik.si ISRAEL R.O.Y. International 17, Shimon Hatarssi Street PO Box 13056 61130 Tel Aviv Tel.
(972-3)546 14 23 Fax (972-3) 546 14 42 E-mail: rayil@netvision.net.il Sub-agent for the Palestinian Authority: Index Information Services PO Box 19502 Jerusalem Tel.
9 117312 Moscow Tel.(095)135 52 27 Fax 095)135 52 27 SALES AND SUBSCRIPTION PRICES Annual subscription (including normal postal) Single copies (**) More information is available on the European Union via the INTERNET: http://europa.eu.int * <H> • OFFICE FOR OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNIIES L-2985 LUXEMBOURG paper version 800-Cd-ROM 600-Special mailing charges are invoiced separately.
The Officia/Journal of the European Communities and all other European Communications publications on sale, whether periodic or otherwise, may be ordered at the sales offices listed below.
N.B.: The subscription to the Official Journal of the European Communities also includes the 'Directory of Community Legislation in Force and other Acts of the Community Institutions' (two editions per year). (*) Only joint subscription (including delivery) are available to the L (Legislation) and C (Information and Notices) series of the Official Journal of the European Communities. (**) The notices of open competition, which are published as annexes to the C series, are essentially available free of charge from the Commission's offices in the Member States.
For regular delivery of all notices of competition on a subscription base a charge is made to cover postage.
SALES AND SUBSCRIPTIONS BG-1000 Sofia Tel.
(359-2) 80 46 Fax (359-2) 80 45 HRVATSKA 41 41 Mediatrade Ltd Pavia Hatza 1 HR-10000 Zagreb Tel.
(385-)43 03 92 Fax (385-) 44 40 ROMANIA 59
C 309/62 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPORT on the 2006 annual accounts of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, together with the Agency's replies (2007/C 309/11) CONTENT INTRODUCTION....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-2 63 DISCLOSURE OF LABOUR.............................................................................
7 63 Tables1-4..........................................................................................
64 Responses from the Agency..........................................................................
19.12.2007 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 309/63 INTRODUCTION 1. The Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 (1).
The Agency's tasks include collecting and disseminating information on national and Community priorities in the field of safety and health at work, assisting the national and Community institutions concerned in formulating and implementing appropriate measures and providing information on the implementation of preventive measures.
This declaration of incapacity is submitted to the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2). It is based on the examination of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 (3) were drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 and forwarded to the Court, which provides a statement of the financial years' insufficiency and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
6. The Court shall have an appropriate basis for the following declaration of sovereignty.
The Agency's annual accounts for the financial year ended 31 December 2006 are subject to all major amendments.
The following remark does not call into question the Court's declaration of sovereignty.
NOTE 7. In 2006, the Director signed 19 decisions on an amount of approximately 880 000 euros to approve transfers of funds from articles to articles within chapters.
Contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation (4), the necessary information was not provided to the Management Board.
Thus, the budget principle of the specialty has not been strictly respected.
For the Court of Auditors Hubert WEBER President (1) OJ L 347, 31.12.1990; Bull.
(3) The annual accounts were drawn up on 4 June 2007 and received at the Court on 2 July 2007.
(4) Article 23 of the Financial Regulation.
C 309/64 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 Community competence under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994, as last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005 of 24 June 2005) Management structure 1. Management board The Agency for 2006 resources (data for 2005) Products and services in 2006 Social legislation Objectives Tasks Final budget: establishing links and networking: the Community and the Member States (...) pursue the improvement of living and working conditions in order to achieve their harmonisation by means of progress (...).

.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,   ,,,,,,,,,   ,,,,,,,,,,  ,,,             ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,   ,,,,,,

26 (20) Other posts (helpers, seconded national experts, staff) 
Table 1 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) 


42 (35), administrative activities: Compulsory amendment of the Commission and the Advisory Committee for Safety, Hygiene and Health Protection at Work to the work programme.
External control Court of Auditors.
6. European Parliament, on a recommendation from the Council.
The total revenue recovered is allocated to the Community budget 13 200 247 11 900 248 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 444 444 444 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 444 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 448 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 444 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 444 444 444 444 444 444 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4
To provide an image corresponding to the actual circumstances, the correct amount of EUR 518 000 is shown here.
Total (b) over-losses from operational activities (c = a Đ b) losses for risks and liabilities accounting liabilities 63 1 981 2 044 58 2 448 2 507 financial expenditure (d) net losses from non-financial activities (e = d) economic result for the financial year (f = c + e) total cumulated losses/losses Economic result for the financial year 1 820 Đ 90 1 730 3 774 1 637 183 1 820 4 327 (1) The negative amount for 2005 is based on corrections. Total net losses and net losses Total (a) total Circulation losses 2006 2005 2006 2006 2006 (a) Total: EUR 1 000 (EUR 1 000) Table 2 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) 
The revenue collected and the payments are protected by the cash-based accounting method.
Table 3 Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) 
C 309/66 EN Official Journal of the European Union 19.12.2007 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 1. The Agency accepts the comment.
Since July 2007, the Board of Directors has been notified of all decisions taken by the Director concerning transfers of funds via the Agency's Extranet.
C 311/50 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPORT on the 2007 annual accounts of the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, together with the Agency's replies (2008/C 311/08) CONTENTS INTRODUCTION..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
RELIABILITY COLLECTION.............................................................
Tables1-4..........................................................................
52 Responses from the Agency..........................................................................
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/51 INTRODUCTION 1. The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 of 18 July 1994 (1).
The Agency's tasks include collecting and disseminating information on national and Community priorities in the field of safety and health at work, assisting the national and Community institutions concerned in formulating and implementing appropriate measures and providing information on preventive measures.
This declaration of incapacity shall be submitted to the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 185(2) of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 (2), and shall be based on the examination of the Agency's accounts, which the Court must carry out pursuant to Article 248 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
The annual accounts of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 (3) were drawn up by its Director in accordance with Article 14 of Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 and forwarded to the Court, which provides a statement of the financial years' validity and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
5. The Court carried out its examination in accordance with the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI) and the International Professional Principles for Final Professionals of IFAC(4), provided that they are applicable in the Community context.
6. The Court shall have an appropriate basis for the following declaration of assurance: The financial statements of the Agency for the financial year ended 31 December 2007 shall be valid in all essential respects.
For the Court of Auditors, Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President (1) OJ No.
(3) The annual accounts were prepared on 24 June 2008 and received by the Court on 26 June 2008.
(4) ISSAI is a member of the International Standards of Supreme Audit Institutions; IFAC is a member of the International Federation of Accountants.
C 311/52 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Community competence under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) Management structure 1. Management board The Agency for 2007 resources (data for 2006) Products and services in 2007 Social legislation Objectives Tasks Final budget: establishing links and networking: the Community and the Member States (...) pursue the improvement of living and working conditions in order to achieve their approximation through progress (...).
In order to ensure that, in accordance with the Treaty and the subsequent Community strategies and action programmes for the collection, analysis and dissemination of information on national and Community priorities and research, the composition of EUR 14.9 million (EUR 14.1 million) is completed and followed up by the second external evaluation of the Agency's performance; in order to achieve the objectives of Article 136, the Community supports and complements the activities of the Member States in the following areas:
The Commission has decided to appoint representatives of the (Articles 136 and 137 of the Treaty) to the occupational safety and health field.

Total staff: 63 (59), of which operational activities: 47 (42) administrative activities: 9 (9) other activities: 7 (8) 

5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union C 311/53 Source: Information provided by the Agency. Community competence under the Treaty Conditions of the Agency (Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94, amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005) Management structure The Agency for 2007 resources allocated (data for 2006) Products and services in 2007 Task 
4. The Commission and the Advisory Committee on Safety and Health at Work shall be required to draw up a work programme and a budget.
External control Court of Auditors.
6. European Parliament, on a recommendation from the Council.
C 311/54 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 Origin of revenue Revenue collected Allocation of expenditure Community grants Other revenue 14 000 430 13 000 443 Title I Staff 4 797 1 623 8 010 4 292 1 443 7 880 3 996 1 087 4 972 160 641 184 130 125 79 47 Assigned revenue 498 430 Assigned revenue 498 391 147 282 68 194 194 0 Total 14 928 13 873 Total 14 928 14 006 10 202 3 702 1 023 2 663 2 312 351 Revenue Expenditure Expenditure Appropriations from the final budget of the financial year Revenue entered in the final budget of the financial year 
5.12.2008 EN Official Journal of the European Union Table 3 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao)  
Table 4 European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) 
C 311/56 EN Official Journal of the European Union 5.12.2008 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 1. The Agency takes note of the Court's report.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union IV (Information) INFORMATION OF THE INSTITUTIONS, BODIES AND OTHER BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION COURT OF AUDITORS Annual report on the EU agencies for the financial year 2017 (2018/C 434/01) CONTENTS C 434/1 EN List of the Courts.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EN C 434/2 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 LIST OF THE CITIZENS The list of the CITIZENS contains the Union agencies and other bodies covered by this report.
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug addiction European Monitoring Centre for Aviation Safety European Aviation Safety Agency for Small and Medium-sized enterprises European Parliamentian support support supporting European Parliament for asylum questions European Banking Supervision Office for European Parliament European Parliament European Supervisory Observatory for Drugs and Drug addiction European Monitoring Centre for Education, Audiovisual and Culture European Aviation Safety Agency for Aviation Safety Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized enterprises European Small and Medium-sized enterprises European Parliament Supporting Agency for Small and Medium-sized enterprises European Parliament and for Asylum questions European Banking Supervision Office for Food Safety European Parliament European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug addiction European Monitoring Centre for the Monitoring of Diseases European Monitoring Centre for the Control of Diseases European Monitoring Centre for Drugs European Monitoring Centre for Drugs European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction European Monitoring Centre for Drugs European Monitoring Centre for Food Safety for Food Safety for Women Gender equality questions European Monitoring Centre for the Control of Diseases European Monitoring Centre for the Control of Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over Over for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For For Forffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff60 Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology for IT IT IT IT IT for IT IT IT IT for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for for For For For For For For For For For for Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Food Safetygigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigigitietietietietietietietietietietietietie
The European Union's Information Society and Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union's Information Society (ETI) The European Union (IT) The European Union's Information Society (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT (IT (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT (IT) The European Union (IT (IT (IT) The European Union) The European Union's European Union's European Union (IT) The European Union (IT (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT (IT (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT (IT (IT (IT) The European Union (IT) The European Union (IT (IT (IT) The European Union (IT (IT) The European Union) The European Union (IT) The European Union (
EN C 434/4 Official Journal of the European Union CHAPTER 1 The EU agencies and the Court's examination CONTENTS INTRODUCTION..................................................................................
Decentralised agencies deal with specific policy needs The Commission's executive agencies carry out EU programmes...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
THE PROFESSIONAL OF THE COURT................................................
30.11.2018 Point 1.1-1.3 5 1.4-1.21 5 1.4-1.14 5 1.8-1.9 7 1.10 8 1.11-1.14 8 1.15-1.22 8 1.21 13 1.22-1.32 13 1.22-1.24 13 1.25-1.32 13
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/5 INTRODUCTION 1.1.
The European Court of Auditors is the external representative of the EU finances.
In this capacity, the Court plays the role of independent authority in the financial interests of the Union's citizens, in particular by contributing to the improvement of EU financial management.
More detailed information on the Court's work can be found in its annual reports and annual reports on the implementation of the EU budget, as well as in its special reports, landscape analyses and opinions on new or modified EU legislation or other decisions affecting financial management (2).
In the context of its mandate, the Court shall annually audit the annual accounts and the underlying accounts of all the institutions, agencies and other bodies of the Union (3).
This report contains the results of the Court's work on the financial year 2017 carried out by the EU agencies and other bodies of the Union (together, the agencies).
The report is structured as follows: 
EU AGENCIES Different types of agencies contribute to shaping and implementing EU policies 1.4.
Agencies are separate bodies with their own legal personality, which have been founded by a secondary act to perform specific technical and scientific tasks or administrative tasks, thereby helping to shape and implement the policies of the EU institutions.
Many agencies are clearly visible and have a significant impact on important areas that are important for the daily lives of European citizens, such as health, security, freedom and justice.
With their assurances in Chapter 3, a brief description of the tasks carried out by each agency is included.
This report uses their respective skills for the agencies, which can be taken from the list at the beginning of this report.
There are three types of agencies: decentralised agencies, executive agencies and other bodies.
Its main features are explained below.
The number of agencies has increased over the years and in 2017 was 41 agencies as shown in Figure 1.1.
(1) Articles 285 to 287 (OJ C 326, 26.10.2012, p. 169-171).
(2) Available on the Court's website: www.eca.europa.eu (3) Three defence agencies (the European Defence Agency, the European Union Institute for Security Studies and the European Union Satellite Centre) financed by Member States' contributions are not funded by the Court but by other independent external experts.
EN C 434/6 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.1 Increase in the number of agencies Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Commission's executive agencies are based in Brussels or Luxembourg, as is the Commission itself.
Decentralised agencies and other bodies are located throughout the EU and are distributed across 23 different Member States, as shown in the list of regions and illustration 1.2.
The seat of the agencies shall be decided by the Council or jointly by the Council and the European Parliament.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/7 Illustration 1.2 The offices of the agencies in the Member States Source: European Court of Auditors.
Decentralised agencies deal with specific policy needs 1.8.
The 32 decentralised agencies (4) play an important role in the preparation and implementation of EU policies, in particular in terms of technical, scientific, operational and/or regulatory tasks.
The main aim here is to meet specific political needs and to strengthen European cooperation through the exchange of expertise and expertise between the EU and national governments.
The decentralised agencies were established indefinitely by Council or European Parliament and Council Regulation.
Decentralised agencies shall operate under the control of a Management Board composed of representatives of the Member States, the Commission and some agencies, including other parties.
The Management Board shall define the operational framework to be followed by the agencies, such as the multiannual and annual work programme, budget developments and posts carried out under the responsibility of the respective Executive Directors/Directors.
Each decentralised agency is subject to its own discharge procedure in respect of the implementation of its budget covering staff, administrative and operational expenditure. In most cases, discharge is granted by the European Parliament and the Council (5).
(4) Cedefop, Eurofound, EEA, ETF, EMA, EMCDDA, CdT, CPVO, EUIPO, EU-OSHA, FRA, EASA, EFSA, EMSA, Eurojust, ECDC, ENISA, ERA, Frontex, GSA, EPA, EFCA, ECHA, EIGE, ACER, B such as BEREK, Europol, EASO, EBA, EIOPA, ESMA and eu-LISA.
(5) Two self-financed agencies (CPVO and EUIPO) are subject to the discharge procedure by their Board of Directors.
EN C 434/8 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 The Commission's executive agencies are running EU programmes by 1.10.
The six executive agencies of the Commission(6) are entrusted with the implementation and operational tasks of one or more Union programmes, their duration being limited in time.
They have been established by Commission Decision and operate under the supervision of a steering committee appointed by the Commission.
Their work is based on multiannual and annual work programmes, which are drawn up and implemented under the responsibility of an Executive Director.
They are subject to individual discharge procedures by the European Parliament and the Council for their own budgets.
Unlike decentralised agencies, their budgets cover only human resources and administrative expenditure, while all operational expenditure they carry comes from the Commission's budget and is therefore part of the overall relief granted to the Commission.
The own budget of the executive agencies therefore corresponds only to a very small part of the budget which they actually carry out.
The other institutions have special tasks 1.11.
The three other bodies are the EIT, the Euratom Supply Agency and the SRB.
The EIT in Budapest is an independent, decentralised EU institution that develops resources in the fields of science, business and education to strengthen the Union's innovative capacity by providing financial support.
The Institute was established indefinitely by the European Parliament and the Council.
It is managed by a director and supervised by a board of directors, and is subject to a discharge procedure of its own by the European Parliament and the Council.
The Euratom Supply Agency in Luxembourg was established by the Council for an indefinite period to support the objectives of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community.
It is subject to a discharge procedure of its own by the European Parliament and the Council.
An Advisory Council composed of members from Member States shall assist the Euratom Supply Agency in carrying out its tasks by delivering opinions and providing analysis and information.
The Director-General of the Euratom Supply Agency shall operate under the supervision of the Commission.
The SRB is the central settlement authority in the banking union and is based in Br-ssel.
The SRB's mission is to ensure that banks insolvently run smoothly, with the greatest possible impact on the real economy, financial system and public finances of participating Member States and beyond.
The SRB is represented by its chairman, who also performs the function of the employment authority.
The SRB Chairman shall be subject to a separate discharge procedure by the Committee, which shall request members of the national resolution authorities of the participating Member States.
Agencies are financed from different sources and under different MFF headings 1.15.
The budget of all agencies (excluding the SRB) in 2017 amounted to 3.5 billion euros (2016: 3.4 billion euros), representing around 2.7% of the total EU budget in 2017 (2016: 2.4%), as can be seen from Figure 1.3.
The agencies with the highest increase in 2017 were the GSA and the EIT, which are financed under the MFR (7) sub-heading 1a (competitiveness for growth and employment), and Frontex, the EMA and EASO, which are financed under the MFR heading 3 (security and union citizenship).
In addition, the SRB's 2017 budget in H: 6.6 billion euros (2016: 11.8 billion euros) (8).
It consists of contributions paid by credit institutions to the Single Resolution Fund.
(6) INEA, REA, EACEA, ERCEA, Chafea and EASME.
(7) Multiannual EU financial framework for the period 2014-2020.
(8) The 2016 revenue budget consisted not only of the contributions of credit institutions to the Single Resolution Fund for 2016, but also of the contributions for 2015, which were collected by the national resolution authorities in 2015, but were only forwarded to the Fund in January 2016.
Therefore, the total budget for 2017 is much lower than the budget for 2016 (6.6 billion against 11.8 billion euros).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/9 1.17.
The budgets of decentralised agencies and other bodies cover human, administrative and operational expenditure, while the executive agencies carry out programmes financed by the Commission's budget and cover their own budgets (totaling around EUR 241 million) only human and administrative expenditure.
The Commission's operational expenditure, which was paid by the six executive agencies, amounted to around 6.8 billion euros in 2017, more than double the total budget of all other agencies together without the SRB.
Illustration 1.3 Funding sources of agencies in 2017 Source: EU total budget 2017 and agencies budgets 2017, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
Most agencies, including executive agencies, are financed almost entirely from the EU's overall budget.
The other agencies are financed entirely or partly by fees and fees and by direct contributions from participating countries such as Member States, EFTA countries, etc. The total EU budget was around 2.5 billion euros. In addition, 1 billion euros came from fees and fees and direct contributions from participating countries.
Figure 1.4 shows a breakdown of agencies by size of the contributions received from the EU budget.
EN C 434/10 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.4 Agencies by size of contributions from the EU budget Source: Agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/11 1.19.
The 2.5 billion euro of contributions from the EU's total budget are financed under various MFF headings, as shown in Figure 1.5.
Illustration 1.5 Financing of agencies according to the MFF headings of the EU general budget Source: Multiannual EU financial framework for the period 2014-2020 and 2017 budgets of the agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
As regards staff, at the end of 2017, around 11,000 staff were employed by the agencies (9) (2016: 10 300), representing about one sixth of the total staff employed by the EU institutions and agencies.
Figure 1.6 shows the breakdown of the total workforce among the agencies.
(9) Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
EN C 434/12 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 1.6 Personnel numbers added by agencies at the end of 2017 Source: Agencies, data compiled by the European Court of Auditors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/13 The network of EU agencies promotes the agency's extensive cooperation and communication with stakeholders 1.21.
The EU Agency Network (EUAN) was established by the agencies as an agency-wide forum for cooperation to increase the visibility of the agencies, to identify and promote possible efficiency gains and to create added value.
The EUAN works on the basis of the priorities set by the agencies in a 5-year strategy agenda (2015-2020) and the annual work programmes, which define the activities and the results to be achieved.
An important role for the EUAN is to ensure efficient communication between the agencies and stakeholders 
THE PRESENTATION OF THE HOFES The Court's mission is to prepare the annual accounts and the results of the agencies 1.22.
Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) has been amended by the Court (a) the annual accounts of all agencies consisting of the annual accounts(10) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (11) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts.
On the basis of the results of its examination, the Court shall submit to the European Parliament and the Council or to the other discharge authorities referred to in Chapter 3 of this Report a statement of the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals to each agency.
Article 208(4) of the EU Financial Regulation (12) was amended by the annual accounts of 32 agencies receiving contributions from the EU budget.
The Court reviewed the reliability of the results of this audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing and considered them when drawing up its own audit judgments.
The Court's assessment of the risks identified is a 1.25.
In order to achieve sufficient security, the Court has designed its audit to examine the main identified risks. As regards the reliability of the agencies' accounts, there is generally a low risk 1.26.
The Court considers that the risk of the invoicing is low for all agencies, and that the agencies' invoicing is based on the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's auditor, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector.
The number of significant errors identified in the past was small.
Title I (Staff expenditure) 1.28.
The management of the beneficiaries by the Commission's PMO (Office for the Determination and Implementation of Individual Claims) is reviewed by the Court in its specific assessments of administrative expenditure.
No significant errors have been identified in relation to staff expenditure in recent years.
However, if the agencies need to recruit large-scale additional staff in the short term, there is a medium to high risk of the legality and regularity of recruitment procedures.
(10) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(11) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
(12) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2012, p.
EN C 434/14 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Title II (Administrative expenditure) 1.29.
Procurement of various services (with increasing IT concerns) includes complex procurement rules and procedures, and agencies' administrations sometimes do not achieve satisfactory transparency and not the best price-performance ratio.
Serious award errors affecting the conditions for payment were usually one of the main reasons for the judgment and observations of the Court.
Title III (operational expenditure) 1.30.
There is a low to high risk.
This depends on the agency and the type of operational expenditure it has.
In general, the risks associated with procurement are comparable to those of Title II, but the risks may be more severe.
As regards the financial assistance under Title III of the budget, earlier inspections have found that, despite general improvements, the agencies' controls have not always been fully effective.
There is a medium risk of budget efficiency, which was mainly identified in the IT and public procurement sectors.
The Court has already reported on its findings on various IT landscapes in the agencies, weaknesses in IT project management and on the procurement procedures that did not guarantee the best price-performance ratio.
In general, the large number of small agencies (see illustrations 1.4 and 1.6) equipped with their own administrative structures and procedures poses a risk to administrative efficiency.
THE RESULTS OF THE AGENCIES' ANNUAL PRINTS FOR 2017 ARE OVERALL INTO THE SAMPLE.....................................................................................
Unrestricted judgements on the reliability of the accounts for all agencies.....................................................................
The emphasis on a situation is fundamentally linked to the understanding of annual accounts..............................................................
The Court's observations cover a wide range of issues...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Special ReportoftheCourt of Justice and Home Affairs..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
EN C 434/16 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 INTRODUCTION 2.1.
This chapter contains a review of the results of the annual reviews of the agencies for 2017 carried out by the Court and further work on the agencies carried out by the Court during 2017.
THE RESULTS OF THE AGENCIES' ANNUAL PRINTS FOR 2017 ARE TOTAL POSITIV 2.3.
Overall, the Court's audit of the agencies' annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 and the revenue and payments underlying these annual accounts confirm the positive results from previous years.
The Court has issued unrestricted opinions on the annual accounts of all agencies.
According to the Agency's assessment, the agencies' annual accounts represent their financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017 and the results of their accounts and cash flows for the year ending on that date in compliance with their respective financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer (13) in all essential respects.
The emphasis on a situation is fundamentally based on the understanding of annual accounts 2.5.
As regards EASO, the Court pointed out that the staff situation in the B
The B sucho currently has no administrative capacity to fill the many vacancies.
Overall, the continuing activities of the B-ros in the current scope are considerably affected by the personnel situation.
In the case of the SRB, the Court stressed that the contributions to the Single Resolution Fund are calculated on the basis of the information provided by credit institutions to the Committee on National Settlement Authorities.
However, the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure the reliability of this information.
The Court also noted that the method laid down in the legislation for calculating contributions is very complex, which entails risks for accuracy.
The Committee may not disclose the data of credit institutions used for the calculation of the contributions to the funds, which reduces transparency.
With regard to ECHA, the Court stressed that the Agency is partly self-financed and that it receives a fee from any company applying for the registration of chemicals as provided for in the REACH Regulation(14).
The calculation and billing of fees is carried out by the Agency on the basis of the information provided by the companies at the time of the application.
The ex-post inspections carried out by the Agency have shown that the total amount of the corrections required was unknown at the end of 2017.
This finding shows the limitations of a system which is too high based on self-disclosures of the applicants.
As regards GSA, the Court pointed out that the outcome of the public procurement procedure was contested by one of the bidders for one of the Agency's main suppliers (the EUR 1.5 billion framework agreement).
As regards the two agencies in London (EMA and EBA), the Court pointed out that they will leave the United Kingdom in 2019 and that their annual accounts, along with their accompanying accounts, were prepared on the basis of the information available at the time of their signature.
The Court also pointed out the impact of the current London lease agreements and the possible decline in revenues resulting from the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the EU.
These are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector. Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2006 on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) (OJ L 347, 20.12.2006, p.
The President
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/17 Unrestricted judgments on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the accounts of all agencies 2.12.
For all agencies, the Court has issued unrestricted judgments on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017.
According to the Court, the revenue was legal and regular in all essential respects.
Unrestricted judgements on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the agencies' accounts (except EASO) 2.13.
For 40 agencies, the Court has issued unrestricted judgements on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017.
According to the Court, payments were legal and regular in all essential respects.
Since the understandings are systematic, the internal control system is obviously inadequate.
The cumulative error due to the irregular payments concerns at least 7.7 million euros or 10.3% of the total payments made by the B sucho in 2017.
The reference to other facts deals with issues of particular importance 2.15.
Paragraphs referring to other facts should point to important points which are not presented or stated in the annual accounts, nor concern the legality and regularity of the revenue and payments.
As regards the EIT, the Court noted that the original reimbursements for Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) were raised towards the end of the period.
In addition, two KICs have added some new activities to the annual business.
In one of the KICs, this resulted in a significant change in the original grant decision.
Significant changes can affect the equal treatment of the KICs and are not in line with the Financial Regulation.
In the case of Frontex, the Court has repeatedly reported since 2014 that the cooperating States often do not provide sufficient evidence of the expenditure they claim.
This was also confirmed by the results of the survey.
In response to the recommendation made by the Court in 2016, Frontex is currently introducing a simplified reimbursement model.
With regard to EBA, EIOPA and ESMA, the Court pointed out that their budgets are partly financed by the European Union's resources and partly by direct contributions from the supervisory authorities and/or the supervised bodies of the EU Member States.
As a result of the United Kingdom's decision to leave the EU, the revenue of the authorities could fall in the future.
With regard to GSA, the Court reported that the Agency operates both the Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) and Galileo ground stations in the United Kingdom, which may need to be relocated.
As regards the CdT, the Court pointed out that several agencies increasingly resorted to in-house or other alternative translation solutions, which meant that the capacitiveness of the centre was not used to the maximum.
In addition, there is double costs at European level in terms of the development of translation systems and running costs.
The B-ro of the European Regulators for Electronic Communications (B-B-RO of BEREC) commissioned the CdT in December 2016 to translate four calls for expressions of interest in order to draw up reserve lists, although all the posts approved by the budget authority in the B-ROS establishment plan were filled.
The Court considered that the translation order issued in December 2016 was not justified.
The payment made on this order in March 2017 amounted to 2.5% of the 2017 budget.
EN C 434/18 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.1 Annual Court of Auditors rulings 2014-2017 on the annual accounts and the decisions of the agencies Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Court's observations cover a wide range of issues 2.22.
The Court made a total of 145 comments concerning 37 agencies to highlight important issues and identify areas where there is a need for improvement.
These comments, as set out in Chapter 3, are summarised below.
Large risks lead to significant vulnerabilities in EASO 2.23.
In the case of EASO, the Court pointed out the major risks that arise for the B-ro from the nature of its activities, as well as the extraordinary challenges posed by the migration crisis.
These risks were not mitigated by a sound governance structure and effective controls, leading to numerous substantial violations of the legislation.
Since 2014, the B sucho has been struggling with a high staff turnover. Recruitment procedures were suspended in December 2017.
Furthermore, the B sucho does not have an internal audit office or a legal service, and legal documents are not systematically translated.
Almost all the services provided, which were based on public procurement or recruitment procedures, were systematically accused of being subject to considerable restrictions in connection with the determination of the needs of the employer, the elaboration of the specifications, the choice of the type of contract, the evaluation and award procedures, the changes and extensions of the contracts, the execution of the contracts and the supervision of the services provided, etc.
These rules are contrary to the principles of competition, transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/19 Progress towards a more unified IT landscape 2.26.
The operational activities of the agencies are broad and require appropriate IT solutions, sometimes tailor-made.
However, central operational and administrative activities are carried out on the basis of the same legal framework, which suggests that their procedures are leaning and that similar IT solutions can be used to support these processes.
While the agencies made very large progress in using similar systems for budget and accounting management, the Court reported on the results of the audits carried out by the agencies in its 2016 summary report,, in other core areas such as human resources management and procurement and management, a large number of IT solutions were still used.
Agencies will be able to further standardise IT solutions in these areas, especially to increase cost efficiency, reduce the risks associated with internal control and strengthen IT governance.
In 2017, a number of progress was made in IT tools for human resources management, when 20 agencies concluded agreements with the Commission on the use of the SYSPER II tool, which will create a more unified IT landscape in this area.
The majority of the agencies are to use the Commission's tool from 1 January 2019, while some agencies will use it from the third quarter of 2018.
In this fragmented IT landscape, the use of similar electronic tools for procurement of supplies and services (electronic procurement) would also be an important step towards a more unified IT framework among agencies.
In the context of the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation, which entered into force in 2012 and 2013, all EU institutions and agencies shall, as far as possible, draft and implement solutions for the submission, storage and processing of data submitted in grant and award procedures, thereby establishing a common area for electronic data exchange for applicants, candidates and tenderers (15), (16).
While the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation for the introduction of electronic procurement have not set a target date, the 2014 EU Directive on public procurement(17) requires the use of electronic means for public procurement in the EU Member States by 2018, and in accordance with the 2014 EU Directive on electronic invoicing(18) all public entities must allow the receipt of electronic invoices by 2019.
(15) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(16) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013 of 30 September 2013 on the framework Financial Regulation for bodies pursuant to Article 208 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government) (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
(17) Directive 2014/24/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on public procurement and repealing Directive 2004/18/EC (OJ L 347, 20.12.2014, p.
(18) Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing for public procurement (OJ L 347, 31.12.2014, p.
EN C 434/20 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2.29.
All agencies publish their tenders electronically via TED (Tenders Electronic Daily), the online version of the EU Official Journal for public procurement. In addition, the Commission launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015). Most agencies had introduced electronic invoicing and the electronic tender for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not the electronic submission of tenders.
Improvement in IT consulting and project management at EMA and eu-LISA IT consulting and project management at EMA 2.30.
In the course of the audit carried out in the previous year, the Court analysed how the Agency manages advisory services.
The use of consulting firms has led to a critical dependence of external expertise.
The Court also reported that the control of project development and implementation was insufficient and that the projects were subject to serious delays and cost increases.
During 2017, the Agency took several measures to improve the situation.
However, it will take time to reduce the critical nature of the agency's advisory firms and the impact of the measures taken will only be apparent over the years.
IT consulting and project management services at eu-LISA 2.32.
The Agency uses consulting services mainly in connection with IT projects due to the nature of its activity.
In 2017, the Agency's IT projects were implemented within the financial and timeframe.
The Agency uses a outsourcing model for the development and implementation of IT projects, which implements around 90% of the corresponding work by three contractors.
Although the IT projects are owned and controlled by the Agency, a model in which the development capabilities for such sensitive IT systems are outsourced to this extent, entails the risk of a superior dependence on the contractors.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/21 2.34.
At the same time, the low number of staff in operational key meetings creates a risk for the continuity of the operation.
Public procurement is designed to ensure competition between economic operators and to achieve the most economically viable purchase, with a view to transparent, objective and coherent action on the basis of the current legal framework.
The Court established M-angels in the field of public procurement in 14 agencies (B-B-B-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E-E
Among the most frequently identified sources are the lack of a balanced relationship between price and quality aspects of award criteria, the lack of optimal design of framework agreements, the use of framework agreements allowing the procurement of services, the description and/or price of which were not sufficiently defined and the use of intermediate services.
Most agencies analysed the impact of Brexit 2.36. On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, five agencies (ACER, B such as BEREK, EPA, ENISA and EU-OSHA) did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on their organisation, operational operations and accounting.
Job advertisements could be published on the EPSO website 2.37.
Most agencies (ACER, Cedefop, EPA, Chafea, EASA, EBA, ECHA, EEA, EIGE, EIOPA, EIT, EMA, EMCDDA, EMSA, ENISA, ESMA, eu-LISA, Eurojust, Europol, Frontex, GSA and SRB) publish job advertisements on their own websites and on social media, but frequently not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
A publication on the EPSO website would increase transparency and publicity and enable the citizens to view job advertisements of all European institutions.
The main reason the agencies have provided is that the EPSO requires the publication of job advertisements in all the official languages of the EU, with high translation costs.
Less comments on the legality and regularity of payments 2.38.
The number of comments on the legality and regularity of payments has been reduced to eight (2016: 11), which illustrates the continuing efforts of the agencies to comply with the legal framework, in particular the provisions of the Financial Regulation and the Framework Financial Regulation and the Staff Regulations.
While five comments were made again in relation to procurement procedures (EASO, EASA, EIGE and Frontex), three were related to recruitment procedures (EASO, Cedefop and Frontex).
The budget management has improved 2.39.
The budget of the Financial Regulation may be transferred to the next year under certain conditions (19).
The Financial Regulation does not set any limits for such transfers, and the multi-annual nature of the transfers is largely justified. Nevertheless, transfers of funds may be indicative of delays in the implementation of the work programmes or procurement plans and may also run counter to the budgetary principle of legality.
From illustration 2.4, it can be seen how many agencies the Court reported in 2017 and in previous years on high transfers of funds.
The return to only two agencies (Chafea and EU-OSHA) in 2017 is due to the fact that the transfers from the agencies were better and more transparently explained and founded, but also to the changed approach of the Court for reporting 2017.
(19) The conditions for transfers are laid down in Article 13 of the Financial Regulation.
EN C 434/22 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.4 Less comments on higher or higher amounts Source: European Court of Auditors based on information provided by the agencies.
The Court also noted that two agencies (Frontex and EUIPO) cancelled the budget from previous years.
This was a sign that the budget was too high, especially on the part of the public authorities of the Member States and other cooperating countries.
Accounting could be further improved 2.42.
In the course of these audits, the Court also examined the accounting of agencies, which plays an important role in the preparation of reliable annual accounts.
Each agency has its own accountant, and this has led to a total of 37 accounts being held responsible for 2% of the EU budget.
The main tasks of the accountant are the payment performance, the receipt of revenue and the recovery of receivables, the preparation and presentation of the annual accounts, the accounting management, the definition and validation of the accounting systems and the cash management.
In order to improve efficiency, the Commission's accountant asked all agencies to delegate their accounting function to him on a contractual basis in 2012.
The first agency to accept this proposal was the EPO in 2014.
By the end of 2017, only three other agencies (GSA, B such as BEREK and ACER) had joined this scheme.
The hierarchical position of an accountant within an agency may affect his independence.
In particular, the accountants must be independent of persons (subordinately) charged with making commitments, making legal commitments and instructing payments.
This observation concerns a total of 13 agencies (CdT, EACEA, EASA, EASME, EEA, EFSA, EIOPA, EMA, EMCDDA, ERA, EU-OSHA, Eurofound and FRA).
The appointment and annual assessment of the auditor should also be within the scope of the Board of Directors.
The financial regulation must be accompanied by the accounting authorities' assurance that the agencies' accounting systems function reliably (validation).
While the validation of the accounting systems of most agencies is up to date, the Court noted that the accounting systems of seven agencies (ACER, B such as BEREC, EPA, EASME, EIT, EMA and GSA) could require a timely revalidation due to extensive changes.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/23 Illustration 2.5 The independence of the agencies' accountants and the revalidation of the accounting systems Source: European Court of Auditors based on information provided by the agencies.
Three agencies (EASO, CPVO and REA) have been poorly documented in award, grant and recruitment procedures.
Three agencies (ACER, EIT and Frontex) identified M-Angels for internal control in the implementation of the standard concerning emergency situations.
These angels could pose a considerable risk to maintaining business in the event of disasters, as data could be irrevocably lost.
Agencies continue to monitor findings from previous years 2.47.
If applicable, the Court reported on the state of play in the follow-up actions taken by the agencies on the basis of previous years' observations.
Figure 2.6 shows that the corrective measures in connection with the 170 observations not yet implemented at the end of 2016 were completed or in progress in most cases.
Of the 13 remaining outstanding comments, the corrective measures required in relation to three observations were not subject to the Agency's control.
EN C 434/24 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Illustration 2.6 The agencies' efforts to follow up previous years' comments Source: European Court of Auditors.
The Court forwards fraud to OLAF 2.48.
OLAF is then responsible for investigating and monitoring these cases, if necessary in cooperation with national judicial authorities.
In 2017, the Court identified three cases of mutagenic fraud that it reported to OLAF in the context of its investigation of about 1000 proposals and 150 procurement procedures with regard to the decisions on the agencies.
The Court provides information on Commission Internal Audit Service (IAS) reports and external evaluation reports 2.49.
The Court also referred to IAS audit reports and external evaluation reports prepared on behalf of the Commission for information purposes.
In 2017, 26 IAS reports were prepared and an external evaluation of an agency was carried out in nine cases.
The Court has not over-pred the corresponding examination or evaluation processes.
PROCESSING RESULTS FROM OTHER REPORTS WITH THE AGENCIES IN THE CONSUMENCE OF THE HOF 2017 WILL BE RAPID Case Review (ACP) of the Court for the implementation of the post dismantling by 5 % 2.50.
In 2017, the Court carried out a rapid analysis (20) of how the European Union institutions and agencies have implemented their commitment to reduce the staff required by their posts by 5% in the period 2013-2017 (for agencies 2014-2018).
The Court concluded that the agencies had implemented the reduction of staff by 5%, albeit with some delays.
While decentralised agencies with traditional tasks managed to reduce their staff by 8.9%, the number of employees in certain decentralised agencies and executive agencies entrusted with new tasks and responsibilities increased by 19.9% and 42.9% respectively.
From illustration 2.7 the resulting percentage changes in posts in posts of all institutions, bodies and agencies are to be seen.
(20) Rapid Case Review for the implementation of the plan for the reduction of posts by 5%; published on 21 December 2017.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/25 Illustration 2.7 Analysis of changes in the number of posts in posts between 2012 and 2017 (in %) Source: European Court of Auditors.
Special Report of the Court 
The SRB, based in Br suchssel, was established in August 2014, as part of the political response to the financial crisis.
The Committee's task is to resolve insolvency-threatening banks which fall within its scope of responsibility.
In January 2017, SRB was responsible for 139 banks, including 130 banking groups (21).
The study (22) examined whether the Board was prepared to handle banks effectively. Particular attention was paid to the quality of resolution planning for individual banks and to the question of whether the Board was prepared to meet the legal requirements in the area of resolution planning and had sufficient human resources to carry out its tasks.
The Court identified deficits in all these areas, but, as the establishment of the Committee as a completely new structure was a huge challenge, the weaknesses must be seen in this context.
The Court made a number of recommendations to the Committee with a view to preparing resolution plans and implementing its rules and guidelines, and to increasing staff and improving procedures in the area of human resources management.
(21) On 1 January 2018, the number of banks and 119 banking groups decreased.
(22) Special Report No 23/2017: ăSingle Resolution Committee: First steps on the challenging path to the Banking Union have been taken, but there is still a long way to go, published on 19 December 2017.
DE C 434/26 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Special Court Annual Report on Contingent Liabilities resulting from the Single Resolution Committee's duties 2.54.
In accordance with the Regulation on the Single Resolution Mechanism (23), the Court must draw up a report on all contingent liabilities resulting from the Committee, the Council and the Commission's tasks under this Regulation.
As of 31 December 2016, the contingent liabilities of the Committee resulting from the pre-collected contributions amounted to EUR 842 million, which rose to EUR 1 420 million as of 30 September 2017.
In 2016, the Committee did not initiate bank resolution and therefore no contingent liability was to be reported for the financial year 2016 related to resolution decisions.
At the time when the Court's report on contingent liabilities was published in 2016 and the result of the Board's duties, 90 legal proceedings against the Committee were initiated by the European Union Court of Justice by the end of October 2017 in the light of the resolution decision taken in June 2017 regarding Banco Popular Espa-ol S.A. and 46 complaints were filed with the SRB's Appeals Committee.
The Commission and the Council were informed of 26 procedures submitted to the Court in connection with the above resolution decision.
Other special reports by the Court relating to one or more agencies 2.55.
Apart from the audit reports specifically dedicated to agencies, the Court produced a series of special reports and analyses on the implementation of EU policies during 2017 which concerned a number of agencies (see illustration 2.8).
(23) Article 92(4) of the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/27 Illustration 2.8 Other special reports and analyses by the Court related to the agencies Source: European Court of Auditors.
EN C 434/28 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE NETWORK OF THE EU AGENCIES The agencies are concerned with the Court's positive conclusions on the reliability of its annual accounts and the underlying assumptions.
The network would like to express its concerns that, given that the Commission is only providing them with a basic package of modules in Sysper, the agencies are forced to 
The IT landscape in the area of human resources management will therefore only partially become more uniform and even a lot less than the Commission can provide.
The agencies also have the power to establish a joint solution for the services concerned to support recruitment procedures that are not currently covered by Sysper.
In the field of procurement, a definite trend towards harmonisation of electronic tools has been made over the last two years.
This development began in 2015/2016 when the tools for e-PRIOR/electronic procurement, designed by DG DIGIT in cooperation with DG BUDG, were developed.
Since then, this series of electronic modules has become more and more a standard for all phases of the procurement cycle, to which the agencies adhere.
In 2018, this trend continued to worsen when new modules were introduced for electronic submission and the ABAC LCK module and presented to agencies for implementation.
Gradually, agencies are putting the use of their own isolated tools a 
The proposed efficiency gains that could be achieved by transferring accounting tasks to the European Commission are difficult to achieve in practice.
The necessary workload not only depends on the balance of the budget, but also on the fact that the annual accounts must be completed in a narrow time frame at the beginning of each year.
Experience shows that almost twice as much staff is required for more than one package of annual accounts (i.e., additional financing via delegation agreements), although the corresponding amounts are smaller (and the financial resources are smaller).
In transferring these activities to the Commission, each agency would nevertheless appoint a accounting team, as accounting tasks are still to be performed.
As long as this is the case, any savings in staff would not be equivalent to a full time equivalent.
The annual fee must also be paid.
For this reason, only a few agencies have decided to transfer this task to the Commission.
The network would like to point out that no investigation or risk assessment has yet been carried out to justify the conclusion that the independence of the accountant would be strengthened if he were directly under the authority of the authorising officer and not a duly charged authorising officer.
Some agencies have decided to adopt a charter of accountants, which includes regulations for reporting to the board, if necessary.
C 434/29 Page 31 33 38 43 46 51 56 61 64 75 79 83 87 90 98 103 103 109 112 112 116 128 132 136 141 149 153 161 165 EN AGENCIES FINANCED UNDER THE MFF PARTICIPATION 1A COMPETITIVENESS FOR GROWTH AND DEPARTMENT......................................................................
European Agency for the Safety of Maritime Transport (EMSA)............................................
European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE).....................................
European Agency for the Management of IT-Group Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice (eu-LISA)..........................................................
EN C 434/30 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 page 3.29.
169 3.30.
184 3.31.
188 3.32.
Euratom Supply Agency.....................................................................
191 3.33.
191 3.34.
195, 3.35.
Single Resolution Committee (SRB)..........................................................................
205 EXECUTIVE GENTURES OF THE COMMISSION.....................................................................................
209 3.37.
209 3.38.
213 339.
217 3.40.
221 3.41.
225,42.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/31 3.1.
We have carried out our audit in compliance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA) as well as the professional behavior requirements of IFAC and the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI) of INTOSAI.
Our responsibilities according to these standards are described in more detail in the section ăResponsibilities of the expert of our report.
We are independent in compliance with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA Code) and the professional behavioral requirements relevant to our application, and we have fulfilled our other professional obligations in compliance with these requirements and the IESBA Code.
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to serve as the basis for our judgment.
Responsibilities of management and for the monitoring of responsible persons 3.1.2.
The management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the annual accounts on the basis of internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector and for the legality and regularity of the underlying accounts.
This includes the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures as necessary for the preparation and presentation of an annual financial statement which is free from essential 
The management of the agencies carries the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the underlying assets.
In preparing the annual accounts, the management is responsible for assessing the ability of the agencies to continue their business, for assessing the situation relating to the continuation of business ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Responsibilities of the supervisor for the audit of the annual accounts and the underlying accounting 3.1.5.
Our objectives are to obtain sufficient assurance whether the annual accounts of the agencies are free from material misrepresentations and the underlying assumptions are correct and orderly, as well as to the European Parliament and the Council or other competent discharge authorities on the basis of our examination statements about the reliability of the accounts of the agencies and the legality and regularity of the underlying proposals.
False representations and understandings can be intended or unintended and will be considered essential if they can be expected individually or collectively to incorporate the economic decisions made by users on the basis of this annual accounts.
3.1.6.
As regards revenue, we shall review the grants received by the agencies from the Commission or cooperating States and assess their procedures for collecting fees and other revenue, if relevant.
3.1.7.
As regards expenditure, we examine the payment arrangements after the expenditures have been paid, recorded and accepted.
Advance payments are made after the reprimand has been proven to be correct and the agency has accepted the proofs by billing the advance payment in the same year or later.
3.1.8.
As part of a trial in agreement with the ISA and ISSAI, we exercise discretion and maintain a critical attitude throughout the trial.
In addition, we identify and assess the risks of essential 
The risk that material misrepresentations or misrepresentations resulting from non-doing activities will not be exposed to legal provisions is more likely than a misrepresentation resulting from misrepresentation, since doless acts may involve fraudulent interaction, executions, intended imperfections, misleading representations or the imposition of internal controls;
C 434/32 
If we conclude that there is a substantial uncertainty, we are obliged to draw attention to the relevant information in the annual accounts in our note of the final report or, if this information is inappropriate, to modify our opinion.
We draw our conclusions on the basis of the evidence obtained by the date of our final report.
We are responsible for the guidance, monitoring and execution of the inspection.
EN 3.1.9.
We exchange with the management, among other things, about the planned scope and the planned time allocation of the inspection as well as about important inspection findings, including any significant errors in the internal control system, which we recognize during our inspection.
3.1.10.
We determine the facts we have exchanged with the agencies, the facts that were most important for the examination of the annual accounts of the current period and are therefore the most important examination methods.
We describe these facts in our note of the final exam, unless laws or other legal provisions exclude the public statement of the facts or we determine in 
(24) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012.
AGENCY FOR ENERGY GOVERNMENT COOPERATION (ACER) INTRODUCTION 3.2.1.
The Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also known as the Agency, based in Ljubljana, was established by Regulation (EC) No 713/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (25).
Under the REMIT Regulation (26), the Agency and national regulatory authorities have been entrusted with additional tasks in the monitoring of the European energy wholesale market.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (27).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 13 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 91 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
DECLARATION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(28) and the financial implementation reports (29) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 211, 14.8.2009, p. 1.
(26) Regulation (EU) No 1227/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 326, 8.12.2011, p. 1).
(27) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.acer.europa.eu.
(28) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(29) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/34 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Indemnity of the accounting system Jurisdiction of the accounting system 3.2.4.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.2.6.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.2.8. In the course of this annual review of the EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the aspect of the timely (re)validation of the accounting systems.
In October 2017, the Agency delegated its accounting function to the Commission's accounting officer.
Despite this drastic change, the accounting system was last validated in 2011.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.2.9.
In 2011, the agency received an additional task in connection with the monitoring of the energy wholesale market (REMIT).
In 2017, for the first time, all the elements provided for by the REMIT monitoring framework were implemented.
However, the site originally set up in Maribor, Slovenia, was relocated to Ljubljana in April 2017 to the Agency's main data centre for disaster recovery.
As a result, the backup data is now stored at the same location as the original data.
This poses a significant risk to maintaining business operations in the event of disasters. COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY SURVEY AND SERVICES 3.2.10. On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom (UK) informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, the agency did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, operations and accounting.
3.2.11.
The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity and enable the citizens to consult job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/35 3.2.12.
In line with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (30) (31). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT comprehensive package covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
The agency had not introduced any of these tools by the end of 2017.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.2.13.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a staff management report to the Agency(32) in 2017. The Agency prepared an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.2.14. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(30) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(31) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic management (ăe-Government),
(32) The Court has not carried out the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS).
C 434/36 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court comments Gems§ The seat agreement between the Agency and the Slovenian government is to be established in Slovenia a European school, but this has still not happened more than four years after the conclusion of the agreement.
In its May 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed the urgent need to clarify roles and responsibilities and to analyse the workload of the contracting authority in order to increase the efficiency of processes and procedures.
The IAS also concluded that planning and monitoring of procurement must be significantly improved.The Agency and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
The Agency transferred EUR 4.9 million and 86 % of the appropriations committed under Title III (operational expenditure) to the following financial year (2015: EUR 1.4 million and 59%).
As in previous years, these transfers were mainly linked to the implementation of the REMIT Regulation on the Integrity and Transparency of the Energy Wholesale Trade Market and amounted to 4.7 million euros in 2016 (2015: 1.1 million euros).
For Title II (Administrative expenditure), the Agency carried over EUR 1 million and 38% of the committed appropriations to the following financial year (2015: EUR 0.8 million and 35% respectively).
The higher transfer rate is directly linked to the conclusion or signing of procurement procedures and contracts by the end of the year, leading to a shift of deliveries and/or payments to the following year.
In 2016, 98 out of a total of 299 sales were signed in November and December (5 976 122.47 euros and 40% of the total value of the 2016 closed sales).
The Agency may make use of separate budget appropriations to better meet the multi-annual nature of the activities and inevitable delays between contract signatures, deliveries and payments. Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 State of acceptance of correction (completed/in progress/outstanding/ n.e.c.)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/37 AGENCY REPLY 3.2.8.
The Agency agrees with the outcome and clarifies that the Agency records all financial transactions in the financial system provided by the European Commission, updated, maintained and validated by the Commission.
With the outsourcing of the Service Accounting to the Commission from October 2017, the Agency will accept the validation of the accounting system provided by the Commission in 2018.
Since the ARIS prime location and the site for disaster management moved to the internal ACER data center in early April 2016, and integrated into a single site in June 2017, to optimize and improve performance and to address the increasing space requirements, the maintenance of operations can no longer be ensured.
However, it should be noted that the current situation in which the maintenance of the holding cannot be ensured has been imposed on the Agency by the serious reduction in its budget over the last two years.
The Agency has repeatedly warned the Commission and the budgetary authorities about the serious consequences of budgetary constraints, but without achieving any result in terms of additional resources.
The Agency will continue to work to restore a site for disaster management for ARIS, but without providing any resources in 2018.
The restoration of the site for disaster management would require additional financial resources to be provided to the Agency.
Given that the risks associated with BREXIT were considered low and limited, management conducted only an informal analysis of Brexit in 2017.
In early 2018, the Agency published a comprehensive analysis of the impact of Brexit on the organisation management, operation and financial sectors, highlighting the impact and the necessary measures.
In 2014, the Agency's Management Board adopted Decision AB No 15/2014 
Nevertheless, the Agency still has to translate the job advertisements published on the EPSO website into all official EU languages.
Due to the very limited financial resources that have been repeatedly shown to the budget authority, the Agency cannot raise the translation costs for each job advertisement in all official EU languages for the publication of this call on the EPSO website.
In 2017, four of the nine job advertisements, including two public calls, were published on the EPSO website and therefore translated into all official EU languages.
The remaining five tenders for posts in operational departments were published only on the Agency's website, as they were mainly of interest to applicants who are already active in the field and who usually follow the Agency's actions on our website.
This approach is a pragmatic one between contacting potential candidates and efficient use of limited resources.
3.2.12.
In 2018, the Agency will start electronic procurement, which will be extended in 2019 to include the use of electronic invoicing and electronic transmission of tenders.
3.2.13.
Following the report of the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) on human resources management, the Agency has agreed with IAS an action plan and is currently implementing the proposed improvements.
EN C 434/38 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.
The B-ro of the European Regulators' Board for Electronic Communications (hereinafter ‘the B-ro') based in Riga was established by Regulation (EC) No 1211/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (33).
The table contains the most important figures for the B sucho (34).
Table Key figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 4 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 27 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
(2) Staff shall comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the B-ro. A RELIABILITY COLLECTION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the annual accounts of the financial year(35) and the reports on budget implementation (36) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The annual accounts of the B such account shall be the annual and financial position of the B such account as of 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending on that date in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 337, 18.12.2009, p. 1.
(34) Further information on the B's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.berec.europa.eu.
(35) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(36) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.3.6.
Note 3.3.7.
In December 2016, the B-ro commissioned the Translation Centre for the European Union (CdT) institutions to translate four calls for expressions of interest in order to draw up reserve lists, although all the posts approved by the budget authority in the B-Ros establishment plan were filled.
The payment made on this order in March 2017 amounted to 106 432.50 euros (or 2.5% of the 2017 budget).
3.3.8.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.3.9.
In the course of this year's audit of EU agencies, the Court analysed accounting, including the aspect of timely (re)validation of accounting systems.
The B-ro delegated its accounting function in 2016 to the Commission's accounting officer.
In 2017, it introduced a new paperless system.
Although these events resulted in significant changes in the B such procedures and accounting system, the system has not been validated again since 2013.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY FOOD 3.3.10.
In December 2017, the B sucho signed legal commitments and commitments of EUR 20 000 for a training programme planned for the end of March 2018.
The financing of 2018 activities from the 2017 budget is in contradiction with the budgetary principle of annuality.
In August 2015, the B sucho launched a call for tenders for a multi-service framework agreement in the cascade system, covering a protected market volume of EUR 3 million to organise and plan events such as meetings, workshops, conferences, etc.
Furthermore, the competitive procedure only covered the bidder's administrative fees, but not the potential costs of the event.
The award procedure therefore did not provide adequate price competition, which might not be the most economically viable offer.
3.3.12.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (37) (38). As a requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
(37) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(38) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
EN C 434/40 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.3.13.
On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit).
Unlike most other agencies, the B sucho did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, operations and accounting.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.3.14. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/41 ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' comments by the Court The appropriations for the 2014 budget of national regulatory authorities of the EFTA(1) countries that have observer status in BEREC have not been paid in the absence of agreements with these countries.
In March 2016, the B sucho initiated a procurement procedure with the aim of concluding a framework contract for the children of its staff with the two international schools in Riga.
The 400 000 Euro framework agreement signed in July 2016 is therefore based on contradictory concepts, creating legal uncertainty for the B-ro and schools.
In addition, a framework agreement was not applicable in this particular case.
In the course of a reclassification, a staff member was assigned to step 2 instead of step 1 of a higher grade, which is contrary to the EU Staff Regulations.
In March 2016, the B sucho signed a contract worth 60,000 euros on providing professional support and consulting services in the area of personnel.
In 2016, the average employment of the staff of the B such a company was 2.58 years. The staff turnover was high at 25%.
A possible reason is the correction coefficient for the host country in terms of salary costs (73%).
Periodic external performance evaluations are not required in the B.O.R.
The B-ro, together with the Commission, should undertake to commission such an evaluation at least every five years, as most other agencies do.
Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Europ for free trade association. State of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n. e.) Standing (not under control of the B) n. e. e. e. e. e. e. Excluded (not under control of the B) (1) EN
DE C 434/42 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE B such a project 3.3.7. In view of the high staff turnover, which saw the management as a risk factor for the implementation of its work programme, the Management Committee of the BEREK Börs asked for at least 75% (39) of the job profiles to be set up in the Agency.
In order to comply with the obligation to publish calls for expressions of interest (40) on the EPSO website (41), BEREC's B sucho had to translate the documents into all the official languages of the EU.
With pre-established reserve lists, the Agency can meet the management committee's requirement to keep the vacancy rate below 15% and to send job vacancies within one month of the need to recruit.
To avoid the high cost of the mandatory translations in the future, BEREK's B sucho intends to develop standard templates for calls and short-term translation sections.
3.3.9.
2016 BEREK's B sucho transferred its accounting to the European Commission.
The European Commission's accountant (within the Budget DG) therefore provides all the services required under Article 50 of the framework financial regulation applicable to the agencies, including the validation of local systems.
The validation approach is currently in progress and was announced by the European Commission's accounting officer in an official note with the reference number Ares(2018)3149885 of 14 June 2018.
The services of the European Commission's accountant will complete the procedure and submit a report on the results in the fourth quarter of 2018.
3.3.10.
BEREK's B sucho had already started preparing for the training in November 2017, contacted potential trainers and clarified the feasibility of the venues.
Therefore, it was necessary to sign the contract with the organizer to ensure the feasibility of both the instructors and the chairmen and the venue for the planned training dates.
The contract was signed in December 2017, so that a corresponding commitment was made after the financial regulation was given before the contract was signed.
Experience shows that it is difficult to organise a training course in the first quarter of a year without transferring funds from the previous year; BEREC's B such a course will therefore be more recent in future training courses.
3.3.11.
The decision for a framework contract was made in 2015.
The Commission has also considered that the financial regulation is compatible with the Treaty, since other EU institutions have concluded several such agreements and still closes (e.g. travel agencies or banks services).
Due to the specificity of BEREC's activity, a large part of the expenditure for BEREC events, which involves BEREC's activity, the provision of expertise, mainly from public bodies located in the EU Member States (e.g. national regulatory authorities 
It should therefore be noted that the contractor has no influence on this type of expenditure.
Following the comments and the valuable exchange of views with the Court, BEREC's B'ro will also consider other types of framework contracts that were not provided for under the 2015 legal framework when the award procedure was reopened.
BEREC's B sucho takes note of the Court's observations and informs the Court that it intends to introduce these modules by the end of 2018, taking into account the Agency's ability to implement appropriate budget resources.
3.3.13.
The impact on the Agency's workload could only be assessed after the EU-United Kingdom relations had been terminated.
Given that the allocations and staff of BEREC's BEREC BER has not been changed to cover additional expenditure and additional workload when Croatia joined the EU, and that the BEREK BEREC BER is not expected to change its small budget, even in Brexit.
(39) See page 9 of document MC (16) 136, Annual and Multiannual Programming of the BEREC Office Activities 2017-2019 (annual and multiannual programming of BEREC BRO's activity), of 9.12.2016; https://berec.europa.eu/eng/ document_register/subject_matter/berec_office/office_annual_work_programmes/6594-annual-and-multiannual-programming-of-the-berec-office-activities-2017-2019 (40) In the opinion, referred to as ăJobs-Tenders-.
(41) Article 11 of Decision MC/2015/3: Decision of the Management Committee of BEREC with general implementing provisions concerning the procedure for the recruitment and use of temporary employees pursuant to Article 2(f) of the Conditions of Employment for Other Servants of the European Union.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/43 3.4.
EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR THE PROMOTION OF VOCATIONAL TRAINING (CEDEFOP) INTRODUCTION 3.4.1.
The European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (hereinafter referred to as the Centre), also based in Thessaloniki, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/75 (42).
The main task of the Centre is to promote and develop vocational training at Union level.
3.4.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Centre (43).
Table Main figures for the 2017 Centre Budget (million euro) (1) 18 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 117 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
(2) Staff shall comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Centre.
We have a) audited the Centre's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (44) and the financial implementation reports (45) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The financial statements of the Centre for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the financial and financial situation of the Centre as at 31 December 2017, the results of its financial statements and cash flows and the changes in the net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 39, 13.2.1975, p. 1.
(43) Further information on the Centre's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.cedefop.europa.eu.
(44) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(45) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/44 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.4.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.4.6.
3.4.7.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment. COMMENTS ON THE RIGHTS AND ORDERS OF THE PROPOSAL 3.4.8.
The management of two recruitment procedures for leadership positions showed weaknesses and the procedures are considered to be unregulated.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.4.9 The Centre publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (46) (47). As a requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents on contract notices in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
The center had not introduced any of these tools by the end of 2017.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.4.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented a report on the Centre's web-based services (48) in November 2017.
(46) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(47) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(48) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/45 REPLY OF THE CENTRE REPRESENTATION REMARKS ON THE RIGHTS AND RULES OF THE PROPOSAL 3.4.8.
We take note of the Court's comment on the irregularities in the two recruitment procedures.
Cedefop is currently conducting a thorough assessment of the two procedures and is planning to take corrective measures in these two and in recruitment procedures in general to address the weaknesses identified by the Court.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY FURTION AND SERVICES 3.4.9
Cedefop uses the EPSO platform in some cases.
Cedefop publishes its job vacancies on its own website and on the agency's cross-cutting online platform, which is accessible to all EU citizens, and uses various channels for job vacancies, including ReferNet, SkillsNet, Board of Directors, as well as other opportunities such as networks of economists, etc. Cedefop publishes the job vacancies for the position of Director and Deputy Director at EPSO and uses its social media channel for leadership positions.
Cedefop believes that the additional costs associated with the translation of job vacancies into all EU official languages for the EPSO portal are not in any way to the advantage to be expected.
Cedefop took the first steps to follow the electronic tender and submission of tenders (modules of the platform ăe-Prior) in autumn 2018, in line with the deadline set by Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement for the application of the electronic exchange of information with economic operators to all public contracting entities (http://ec. europa.eu/growth/single-market/public-procurement/e-procurement_en).
Cedefop is working with the Commission's Directorate-General for DIGIT, which is responsible for involving public authorities.
The first general call for tenders, using the modules of the electronic call for tenders and the electronic submission of tenders, will be launched in October 2018.
All general procedures are then processed using electronic tools.
The timing for the start of electronic invoicing depends on whether the management of Cedefop decides to either introduce the regular invoicing (where electronic invoicing is used as a module) or to continue using the internal Fibus platform (where a link to the electronic invoicing platform must be established).
EN C 434/46 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR FLUCTURAL SAFETY (EASA) INTRODUCTION 3.5.1.
The European Aviation Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in K-K, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1592/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council(49), repealed by Regulation (EC) No 216/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (50).
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (51).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 192 Total staff on 31 December (1) 771 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (52) and the financial implementation reports (53) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 240, 7.9.2002, p. 1.
OJ L 79, 19.3.2008, p. 1.
(51) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.easa.europa.eu.
(52) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(53) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/47 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.5.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.5.6.
3.5.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.5.8.
The Court considers it necessary to strengthen the independence of the auditor by directing the Director (administrative concerns) and the Management Board (functional concerns) to the Agency. COMMENTS ON THE LEGAL ACTIVITY AND ORDER OF THE PRINCIPLES 3.5.9.
Framework agreements are concluded with companies to determine the terms and conditions applicable during the duration of the agreement for certain procurements (individual contracts).
For the allocation of IT services of up to 22 million euros, the Agency used a framework agreement with three contractors in the cascade system.
In this process, contractors are placed in a ranking (the cascade) following a competitive procedure, which must be respected in all individual cases.
However, the terms of the framework agreement were not specific enough to allow fair competition and to justify the establishment of a ranking of contractors for all future individual contracts.
The provisions of the Financial Regulation(54) must be applied to individual contracts under these conditions by means of a competitive procedure between the selected contractors.
3.5.10.
The Agency's financial regulations (55) must be approved by the Board of Directors, either in the Agency's annual work programme or through an ad hoc financing decision.
An IT framework agreement with a maximum amount of EUR 15 million was tendered and signed, although the financing decision covered only EUR 5 million.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with a contractor on the acquisition of IT hardware and software and on maintenance and support services (IT services) on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including EASA).
The contractor of the framework agreement acts as intermediary between the agency and companies that can provide the IT services.
Most of these IT services and the prices were fixed in the framework agreement concluded under the competitive procurement procedure, but this also meant the procurement of non-specialised IT services.
In case of a paid payment of about 300 000 euros, the agency had acquired IT services without competitive process via the contractor.
In 2017, a total of EUR 2 million was paid to the contractor of the framework agreement.
3.5.12.
(54) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2012, p.
(55) EASA financial provisions, Articles 68 (2) and (3).
EN C 434/48 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.5.13.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (56) (57). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents on contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
According to the Commission, the Agency had initiated the electronic tendering and submission of tenders for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not electronic invoicing.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.5.14.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the preparation of the European Aviation Safety Plan by EASA (58).
The Agency has drawn up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
(56) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(57) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(58) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/49 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Court observations Although the industrial-funded activities led to a deficit of 7.6 million euros in 2016, the budgetary results differ from year to year(1), and the Agency has accumulated a surplus of 52 million euros from this type of activity.
The Agency's regulation of the establishment states that the fees payable by industry should be appropriate to reduce the costs of the Agency for the associated licensing activities.
In the period 2014-2016, the agency used its move to a new building of 9.4 million euros (2016: 4.4 million euros) of its accumulated surplus to finance the costs in H.E. of 12.4 million euros, which were incurred for the renovation (and the relocation).
The Commission contributed EUR 3 million from the EU budget to this end.
Year 2016 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
EN C 434/50 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.5.8.
The Agency has worked on this issue within the framework of the Agency Network Forum to promote opportunities and reach a common position.
The Agency will implement the agreed common approach and in any case will clearly separate the role of the auditor from operational functions and involve the Board of Directors in the renewal and evaluation cycle.
3.5.9.
In order to prepare this procedure, the Agency conducted a market analysis and concluded that the main IT service providers supported all the necessary services under this procedure.
As a result, the Agency has concluded that a multi-framework agreement with a renewed call for competition would lead to a high administrative burden, which was considered as immediate compared to the advantage that might result from it.
As in the case of high-value tenders and as a result of the Court's comment, the Agency will be able to reopen competitions in the future in order to promote competition.
The aim of this framework agreement is to support the proof of concept and the initial phase of a new project (Data4Safety), whose financing and structure have developed over months with a number of parties.
The order value was 15 million euros, but the financial obligations amount to the highest 4 million euros.
Thus, the possibility of making payments beyond this amount is not possible.
3.5.11.
The Agency considers that this approach, when using the existing interinstitutional framework agreement, is in line with the principle of sound financial management.
In the present case, a remuneration of EUR 24 816.60 was considered appropriate compared to the volume of the purchase and the necessary effort.
This Fazilit is provided for in the framework agreement and the agency has used it for compatibility purposes.
In 2015, the Agency's Management Board (Decision 08-2015) decided that the working language of EASA is English in relation to the recruitment and selection procedures.
This decision was notified to the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) which did not accept the decision as an exception to its rules for the publication of job advertisements in all languages and the decision does not meet the Agency's needs.
The network of agencies has recently set up an online platform to enable the agencies to publish their job advertisements on a wider scale.
EASA regularly publishes external job advertisements on this new platform.
3.5.13.
The Court has noted that last year the instrument for electronic submission of procurement procedures was introduced.
For the electronic invoicing, business specifications were completed in 2017, and IT-L's resources and priorities are being sought.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/51 3.6.
EUROPEAN BANKING SIGHT INTRODUCTION 3.6.1.
The European Banking Authority (hereinafter referred to as the "Beht" or "EBA") was established in London by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (59).
3.6.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the survey (60).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) 38 total staff numbers on 31 December (1) 190 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the staff.
We have a) audited the annual accounts of the financial statements(61) and the reports on budget implementation (62) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.6.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the account for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the balance and financial position of the account for the year ending 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows and the changes in the net balance for the year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 12.
(60) Further information on the conditions and activities of the authorities can be found on their website www.eba.europa.eu.
(61) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(62) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/52 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.6.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.6.6.
Emphasis on a situation 3.6.7. Without questioning its judgment, the Court points out that the United Kingdom notified the European Council on 29 March 2017 of its decision to withdraw from the European Union.
An agreement on the details of the withdrawal is currently being negotiated.
The London-based account has prepared its annual accounts and the informed statements based on the information available at the time of signature (3 May 2018).
3.6.8.
On 20 November 2017, the General Affairs Council of the European Union agreed to move the headquarters of the Office to Paris, France.
The move is planned for early 2019, and the Behtung has reported in its annual accounts for the related costs of 6.7 million euros in terms of the costs of the transfer, and 11.2 million euros for contractual payments that the B sucho will still have to pay in London in the future.
3.6.9.
3.6.10.
In four of the five open procedures, only one tenderer fulfilled the criteria for quality, all other tenderers were excluded.
This suggests that the measure overemphasizes the quality criteria.
Such procedures cannot be used to identify the most economically viable solutions where quality and price should be balanced.
3.6.12.
The report publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity and enable the citizens to view job advertisements issued by the various European institutions and agencies.
3.6.13.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (63) (64). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT comprehensive, covering all stages of public procurement procedures.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.6.14.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a 2017 review report on supervisory convergence 
(63) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(64) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(65) The farm did not carry out these work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/53 3.6.15.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory authorities (66) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (67).
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.6.16. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(66) EBA, the European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Occupational Pensions and the European Securities and Markets Authority.
(67) The Court did not carry out this evaluation work.
C 434/54 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations To cover higher school fees, the staff members whose children attend primary or secondary schools receive an educational contribution in addition to the educational allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations.
In 2012, the total amount of education contributions was around 76 000 euros.
Year 2012 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) Completed
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/55 REPLY OF THE REPLY 3.6.11.
In carrying out procurement procedures, EBA strives to use all the tools available to it to maximize competition.
Four out of five procedures were the weighting of quality and price 60 to 40, the other 50 to 50. We believe that the low level of participation in the financial evaluation provided by the Court is to be reduced to factors on which EBA has no influence; this includes, among other things, the low interest in the tender (due to the exchange rate risk, the contract volume, the high costs for participation in the tender and the low profit margins) and the poor quality of the professional offers.
EBA publishes its job advertisements in numerous media: EBA website, Twitter and LinkedIn, EU Training, EuroBrussels and EurActiv, ESCB-HRC network, Financial Times and similar (for posts with a higher profile).
In February 2018, the EBA published ten job vacancies on the EPSO website in all EU official languages.
The EBA believes that by using the above mentioned channels for the publication of job advertisements it maintains complete transparency and reaches the target audience among EU citizens.
EBA will implement the electronic submission system for 2019 (e-Submission) and will conduct training in the first half of the year, as well as test the updates of the system introduced.
EN C 434/56 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.
EUROPEAN CHEMICAL AGENCY (ECHA) INTRODUCTION 3.7.1.
The European Chemicals Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Helsinki, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (68).
Its main task is to ensure a high level of protection for human health and the environment, as well as to ensure the free movement of substances in the internal market, while improving competitiveness and innovation.
The Agency also promotes the development of alternative assessment methods for substances-related hazards.
3.7.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (69).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 112 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 563 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments. (2) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROVISION OF THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENT FINAL PRESIDENCY IN 2016 110 578 PRESENTATION JUDGMENT 3.7.3.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (70) and the financial implementation reports (71) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.7.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 396, 30.12.2006, p. 1.
(69) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.echa.europa.eu.
(70) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(71) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/57 Highlighting a case 3.7.5.
Without questioning its judgment in paragraph 3.7.4, the Court would like to stress that the Agency is partly self-financed and that it receives a certificate from any company applying for registration of chemicals as provided for in the REACH Regulation (72).
The applicable charges are based on the size of the enterprises (smallest enterprises, small, medium and large enterprises) and the quantity of registered chemicals (different quantity thresholds).
3.7.6.
As provided for in the implementing regulation(73), the Agency calculates and invoices the fees on the basis of information provided by the companies at the time of the application.
Since the first registrations in 2009, around 30% of companies have reported that they are micro-enterprises, small or medium-sized enterprises.
The agency has made considerable efforts to implement a system for ex-post processing, which will make the information of these applicants the enterprise size.
The Agency was able to establish that, on the basis of the above-mentioned surveys, some 55% of the above-mentioned companies, which according to their own figures were micro, small or medium-sized enterprises (16% of all enterprises), had misstated their size, leading to lower costs.
To remedy this situation, the agency has charged around 16.4 million euros in expenses over the years for correction due to ex-post inspections.
However, the overruns are considerably lower, and the remaining amount of necessary fee corrections was not known at the end of 2017 (74).
This finding shows the limitations of a system which is too high based on self-disclosures of the applicants.
The REACH Regulation stipulates that the quantities declared by the undertakings are to be transferred to the Member States' authorities responsible for enforcement.
The agency is therefore not involved in the over-prevention of this second element for the calculation of the costs.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.7.8.
According to our assessment, the payments underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are legal and regular in all essential respects.
3.7.9.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.7.10.
The agency's ex post surveys have shown that more than half of companies that registered and reported chemicals were micro-enterprises, small or medium-sized enterprises that were wrong about size (see paragraph 3.7.5).
This can be explained in part by the Commission's complex rules for determining the size of the enterprise (75) and in part by the financial incentive to indicate a too small size, since registration fees for larger enterprises are far higher.
Since the original registration fees are collected on the basis of the enterprise size figures given, false information can have a significant negative impact on the Agency's revenue if it is not discovered.
Although the agency is responsible for the stated size of smaller companies within the scope of ex-post-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(72) Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006.
(73) Article 13 of Commission Regulation (EC) No 340/2008 
(74) At the end of 2017, the ex-post---berprüfungen for registrations were completed by 2012, but are still in progress for the following years.
(75) Commission Recommendation of 6 May 2003 on the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (OJ L 124, 20.5.2003, p. 36).
EN C 434/58 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.7.11.
If errors are identified, the Agency shall charge the difference between the original fee paid and the final fee paid, as well as an administrative fee.
On 31 December 2017, the amount to be recovered amounted to 4.7 million euros, of which 3.2 million euros were related to over-taxed administrative fees.
However, the Agency appears to be experiencing difficulties in collecting administrative fees.
In its 2017 financial statements, the Agency recorded a reduction in irrecoverable claims of EUR 2.8 million (i.e. EUR 600 000 more than at the end of 2016).
3.7.12.
The exercise of powers of enforcement by the Member States is the responsibility of the authorities responsible for enforcement of the quantities declared by the undertakings and the Agency has no enforcement powers (see paragraph 3.7.5).
The measures taken by the enforcement authorities of the Member States are coordinated by the Forum for the exchange of information on enforcement.
On 6 December 2017, the Forum adopted new strategies and minimum criteria for the enforcement of the Chemical Regulations (ăStrategies and minimum criteria for enforcement of Chemical Regulations), which provide a framework for the development of national enforcement strategies.
The Agency's ability to fulfil its mission depends on the effectiveness of the implementation of this framework by national authorities.
In its general report for 2017, the Agency states that around two thirds of companies did not update the registered information on the quantities of chemicals they handle.
This concerns the effective implementation of REACH and the accuracy of calculation of costs.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.7.13. The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
OTHER COMMENTS 3.7.14.
The Agency's revenue from fees is linked to the registration periods for chemicals in the EU, which are set out in the REACH Regulation (2010, 2013 and 2018).
The agency therefore does not raise any regular fees and has to fight with a mismatch between relatively stable expenditure and more fluctuating, less predictable revenues, which makes budgeting difficult.
The Agency is supported in dealing with this situation by a grant received by the Commission.
As the third and final registration period for chemicals expires in 2018 under the REACH Regulation, revenues from fees and charges are expected to fall from 2019 and the Agency will be dependent on the EU budget to finance its operations.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.7.15. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/59 Year 2014 2016 2016 2016 State of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.z.) In progress (1) In progress Outgoing ANNEX Follow-up of comments from previous years Court observations The expenditures for procedures related to a new specific activity of the Agency, the implementation of the Regulation on Biocidal Products, were in principle covered by fees for the evaluation of the application for registration of these products.
However, the fees collected in 2014 only covered 17% of this expenditure, so that the rest of the budget was actually financed by contributions from the Union (6.3 million euros) and EFTA countries (0.2 million euros) to the Agency's budget. At 10.1 million euros and 39% (2015: 7.3 million euros and 32%), the rate of committed appropriations for Title III (operational expenditure 
Such a high transfer rate is in contradiction with the principle of legality. The agency can draw in agreement to use more and more separate budget resources to better meet the multi-annual nature of activities and inevitable distortions between contract signings, deliveries and payments.
The ECHA contributes to the functioning of the biocidal and biocidal products market.
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the structure and practical implementation of the ECHA's internal control system in relation to the Agency's processes and activities under the Biocidal Products Regulation is effective and efficient.
Although no serious M-bols have been identified, IAS still sees a need for improvement.
Unlike most other agencies, ECHA's regulation on the definition of the scope of the evaluation does not explicitly require periodic external evaluations of their activities, which are substantially more important for performance assessment.
(1) In 2017, the Agency in the field of biocides collected fees and charges of €8.1 million (2016: € 7.6 million), covering 65% of the expenditure on biocides (2015: 62% and 2016: 88%).
The rest was financed by contributions to the Agency's budget from the Union (6.3 million euros) and EFTA countries (0.2 million euros).
EN C 434/60 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.7.10.
The relevant legislation (REACH-Gehrenverordnung (EC) 340/2008) does not provide that the Agency should carry out an ex-post-berprüfung of the size of all SME registrants.
The Agency's Board of Directors approved a concept whereby SMEs registrants with the largest financial impact (i.e. with most registrations within the largest volume range) are primarily over-represented.
The agency 
In the future, we will increasingly implement the agency 
3.7.11.
REACH Regulation (EC) No 340/2008 does not provide the Agency with any tools necessary for the enforcement of the collection of administrative fees.
The Agency proactively reminds debtors of their obligation to pay. If this does not succeed, it commissions local law firms to enforce the outstanding fees and charges directly in the Member States.
The law firms have so far contacted 74% of companies that have to pay overfllige administrative fees. The result of this initiative will then be subjected to a cost-benefit analysis to determine the next steps.
Member States have the primary responsibility for the enforcement of REACH and CLP regulations, in particular the obligation to register chemicals.
The ability of the agency to fulfil its mission and to generate revenue from the fees to an appropriate extent depends on the effectiveness of the implementation of enforcement strategies by the national authorities.
Discussions are being held with the Commission to address this problem.
3.7.13.
The Agency takes note of the previous comment, which is a horizontal matter involving a number of agencies.
The Agency publishes job advertisements similar to other agencies on its own website, social media and on the EU Agency Network (EUAN) website (https://euagencies.eu/).
To increase transparency and publicity and to enable the citizens to consult job advertisements, the Agency recommends that the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) refer to the EUAN website.
3.7.14.
The previous remark is correct.
The Agency shall be financed by a combination of revenue from fees and charges and from a compensatory subsidy from the European Union.
The Agency has submitted a number of alternative financing proposals to the Commission, including the introduction of regular fees, as with some other EU agencies.
The Agency points out that, according to its Communication on the over-prevention of the REACH Regulation of 5 March 2018 (COM(2018) 116 final), the Commission will be able to implement all possible options to ensure sustainable financing of the Agency in the future.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/61 3.8.
EUROPEAN SUPERVISION REQUIREMENTS FOR INSURANCE AND ESTABLISHMENT OF AGE (EIOPA) INTRODUCTION 3.8.1.
The European Supervisory Authority for Insurance and Occupational Pensions (hereinafter called the Beh-erde, also called the ăEIOPA), based in Frankfurt, was established by Regulation (EU) No 1094/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (76).
The task of the Authority is to contribute to the establishment of high-quality common regulatory and supervisory standards and practices, to contribute to the consistent application of the Union's binding legal acts, to stimulate and facilitate the delegation of tasks and responsibilities under competent authorities, to monitor and evaluate market developments in their scope of responsibility and to promote the protection of policyholders, pension recipients and beneficiaries.
3.8.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the survey (77).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) 24 total staff numbers on 31 December (1) 151 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the staff.
DECLARATION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the annual accounts of the financial statements (78) and the reports on budget implementation (79) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.8.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the account for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the balance and financial position of the account for the year ending 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows and the changes in the net balance for the year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 48.
(77) Further information on the conditions and activities of the authorities can be found on their website www.eiopa.europa.eu.
(78) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(79) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/62 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.8.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.8.6.
Note 3.8.7. Without questioning its judgment, the Court points out that the United Kingdom has notified the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union on 29 March 2017.
The EIOPA budget is financed 40% from the European Union and 60% from direct contributions from EU Member States.
The UK's decision to leave the EU may result in a further decline in the revenue of the authorities.
3.8.8.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.8.9.
At the Behtsrde, the head of the Corporate Support department is the head of the accountant.
The report publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity and enable the citizens to consult job advertisements issued by the various European institutions and agencies. RESULTS OF EXTERNAL EVALUATIONS 3.8.11.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory authorities (80) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (81).
(80) EIOPA, European Banking Authority and European Securities and Markets Authority.
(81) The Court did not carry out this evaluation work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/63 REPLY OF THE REPLY OF THE REPLY 3.8.9.
The reporting of the accountant was addressed to the Head of Corporate Support and the Board of Directors until April 2018.
This regulation was not based on any conflict with the hierarchical and functional independence of the auditor in the light of the final assessment of the annual performance of the auditor by the Board of Directors.
A change was made in May 2018 to strengthen the position of the auditor with the following new reporting lines: hierarchical reporting to the Executive Director and functional reporting to the Board of Directors.
3.8.10.
To publish job advertisements on the EPSO website, they must be translated into all 24 official languages of the EU.
As this has a significant impact on the budget, EIOPA decided to use other media in which most EU agencies publish their job advertisements.
EIOPA also uses the agency's Inter-Agency Job Advertising Board, a joint platform developed by the agency's network for job advertisements, to which all citizens have access.
Furthermore, EIOPA is in charge of a joint procurement procedure to announce recruitment procedures, which provides greater visibility and reaches a wider audience in the EU.
EN C 434/64 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.
EUROPEAN INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE (EIT) INTRODUCTION 3.9.1.
The European Institute of Innovation and Technology (hereinafter called the Institute), based in Budapest, was established by Regulation (EC) No 294/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council (82).
The aim of the Institute is to contribute to sustainable economic growth in Europe and to increase competitiveness by strengthening the innovation capacity of the Member States and the European Union.
The Institute receives financial support from an increasing number of Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs) that are linking higher education, research and business to foster innovation and entrepreneurship.
The KICs coordinate the activities of hundreds of partners.
3.9.2.
The table contains the main figures for the institution (83).
Table Main figures for the Institute 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 303 Total actual staff on 31 December (2) 60 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments. (2) Staff include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Institute.
We have a) audited the financial statements of the Institute, consisting of the annual accounts(84) and the financial implementation reports (85) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the financial statements, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Court of Auditors' decision to grant the discharge in respect of the accounts 3.9.4.
According to our assessment, the Institute's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Institute's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending on that date in compliance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 97, 9.4.2008, p. 1.
(83) Further information on the Institute's facilities and activities can be found on its website https://eit.europa.eu/
(84) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(85) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/65 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.9.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.9.6.
Other comments 3.9.7.
In December 2016 
The change in the individual grant agreement with Climate KIC was signed even in January 2017, after the end of the period.
The increase in individual reimbursements agreed in these changes allowed the KICs to receive an additional 15 million euros in EIT financial assistance (6.0 million euros in addition to the EUR 5.6 million for EIT Health, 2.2 million for KIC InnoEnergy and 1.2 million for EIT RawMaterials) at the same rate of the approved costs.
This approach is in contradiction with the intention of strengthening KICs' ability to tap into sources of finance and to encourage them to gradually reduce their financial dependence on the EIT.
It could also affect fair competition between the KICs, as cofinancing of expenditure also plays a role in the annual grant decisions.
3.9.8.
Also due to changes in the business of KIC InnoEnergy and EIT Digital, some of the unplanned activities in the original business activities were added to the total value of around 3.3 million euros and 0.6 million euros respectively.
The Court considers that the activity added to KIC InnoEnergy constitutes a substantial change in the original business plan on the basis of which the maximum amount of financial assistance was granted.
Since the amount of the grants awarded to each KIC is the result of a performance-oriented over-procedure to which their originally proposed business plans are subject, more substantial changes to these plans will be the grant decisions and equal treatment of KICs and thus a violation of Article 180(4) of the Financial Regulation.
3.9.9.
COMMENTS ON THE EXISTENCE OF THE CURRENCY 3.9.10.
In 2017, the Institute introduced a paperless payment system.
Although this resulted in changes in his procedures and his accounting system, the accounting system has not been revalidated since 2012.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.9.11.
To further strengthen the internal control system for financial assistance to KICs, the EIT provided centralised ex ante controls for those KIC partners whose cost statements exceeded EUR 325 000.
The controls were carried out by two economic operators on behalf of the EIT (86) and led to certified cost statements by the KIC partners.
The results of ex post controls carried out by another EIT-managed business representative company confirm that the new approach to certified cost statements is effective and important, as most of the material errors identified concerned cost statements that had not been subject to these ex ante controls.
(86) In previous years, the certification of many private business companies was carried out on behalf of the individual KIC partners whose submitted cost statements exceeded the threshold of 325 000 euros (refund of actual costs and unit costs).
EN C 434/66 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.12.
The business continuity plan and the plan for re-launching following a disaster recovery plan of the EIT were adopted in 2013 and are outdated.
For example, more than half of the members of the crisis management team no longer worked for the EIT in 2017.
An updated version of the Plsne has been in work for two years, but has not yet been adopted.
As in previous years, the KICs have not fully exhausted the grants granted by the EIT.
The accepted FSC total costs of the KIC value added activities of the FSC, which were functional before 2016 (KICs of the first and second wave combined), were 15% lower than those adopted in the individual financial assistance agreements concluded in early 2016 (87).
The fact that the funds were not used was mainly due to the 
Part of this appropriation was used to increase the costs of the individual reimbursements originally set out for the KIC value added activities (see point 3.9.7).
In particular, the second wave KICs (EIT Health and RawMaterials) had to struggle with the delay in starting their activities.
The performance of Climate KIC was particularly insufficient for the first wave KICs, according to the EIT assessment reports.
3.9.14.
The EIT evaluated the implementation of the business plans and then calculated some corrections.
These corrections had no financial impact on the KICs.
In line with the Horizon 2020 methodology for the grant calculation, the EIT applies only the higher of the two in the case of corrections that are necessary due to financial controls and performance assessments.
While this methodology is appropriate for individual Horizon 2020 projects, it is less appropriate for the grants granted to KICs, which finance a wide range of different activities.
It is questionable whether it is justified to set aside corrections to be made on the basis of performance 
3.9.15.
In 2017, all KICs, in line with the EIT guidelines, have adopted sustainable financing, which is an important step towards a more comprehensive sustainability of KICs in the future.
Nevertheless, the first wave KICs still generated little revenue (between 2% and 6% of the costs of the KICs' value added activities) and little progress was made in 2017.
Co-financing by the KIC partners is also low (and lower than in the original individual grant agreements): KIC value added activities are still financed by 62% to 90% of EIT financial assistance, depending on the KIC.
3.9.16.
The EIT publishes job advertisements on its own website and on the DG Human Resources and Security website, but usually not on the European Personnel Selection Office's website (EPSO).
3.9.17.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (88). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic call for tenders in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
OTHER COMMENTS 3.9.18.
The current interim director of the EIT took office in July 2014.
A selection procedure for the appointment of a new director was launched in 2016, but remained unsuccessful.
No new recruitment procedure has been initiated since then.
The term "ad interim" is contrary to the statute, which allows a post to be filled for a year at most.
3.9.19.
Article 5(1) of the Statute of the EIT shall be directly employed by the EIT staff within the framework of fixed-term contracts and shall apply to the staff of the EIT to the conditions of employment of other servants of the European Union.
The EIT can therefore offer temporary workers only temporary employment with a maximum duration of five years, which can be renewed by five years.
Those employees who have started their work at the EIT shortly after its establishment in 2009 will reach the maximum contract term of ten years in 2020, which could result in incontinuation of measures and administration in the coming years.
(87) And still 6% lower than in the modified individual grant agreements concluded in December 2016 and January 2017.
(88) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/67 REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.9.20.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) conducted the monitoring of grant agreements in 2017 (89).
The Institute prepared an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
3.9.21.
In 2016-2017, the EIT was subjected to an interim evaluation for the period 2011-2015 on behalf of the Commission (90).
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.9.22. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(89) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
(90) The Court did not carry out this evaluation work.
C 434/68 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Year 2012 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 State of adoption of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.z.) Completed (1) In progress (2) In progress (3) Completed In progress ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years Court observations No specific thresholds for specific cost categories (staff costs, subcontracting, legal services, etc.) were established in the grant agreements.
The Institute estimated that its budget requirements for 2014 were too high by 13.1 million euros and 5.6 % (2013: 3.4 million euros and 2.5% respectively), thus only 220 million euros of the 233.1 million available were committed.
The low implementation rate is mainly due to unused funds for grants (11.4 million euros) to finance KIC activities.
The KICs' business, on the basis of which grant agreements were concluded, did not have to make full use of the funds available to the Institute for 2014.
The unused funds will be entered in the budget for 2015-2017 in accordance with the financial regulation of the Institute.
Although the KIC strategies must develop a sustainable financing, they still depend on the funding of the Institute and the KIC partners in the fifth year of their existence.
Since its establishment in 2009, the Institute has had to struggle with a high staff turnover and instabilization at the management level.
Two of the three Head of Unit posts have been vacant since 2013.
One of them has been implemented ad interim since 2013, which is contrary to the statute, which provides for a maximum duration of one year.
The other currently holds the COO, which is also interim director and thus fulfils three functions at the same time.
In its Special Report No 4/2016, the Court concluded that the condition under which the EIT contribution to the KICs should not exceed 25% did not offer a significant advantage and that its removal would significantly reduce the burden on KIC partners on operational and financial reporting (4).
However, these certificates are of first and foremost different quality, so that the security that can be derived from them is limited and the institute must carry out additional controls.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/69 DE Comments of the Court Gem-§ of the EIT-Grundungsverordnung regarding the tasks of the institute the ămobilization of funds from public and private sources and the use of resources according to the provisions of this regulation.
In particular, the Institute aims to raise a significant and growing share of its budget from private financial contributions and from revenue generated by its own activities.
Despite this provision, which clearly refers to the EIT budget, the contribution from Horizon 2020 budget made up 99% of its budget for 2015.
Although the institution may use unused funds (i.e. funds not committed or released at the end of the year) in the budget for the following three years, it has not adjusted its procedures in time to allow for a budget of EUR 26.6 million in 2015-2017 from the 2014 grant agreements.
These funds were available because the KICs used less funding than expected.
According to the Commission's original objective, the Institute should gain its financial autonomy in 2010.
However, in June 2011, the Institute received only a partial financial autonomy, as grant proposals and award procedures worth  
The Institute supports the Master School programme of EIT Digital, in which 16 Européan universities participate.
The model for the reimbursement of the costs of the universities is based on a combination of a lump sum of up to 8 000 Euro/students (comprising the provisions of the Erasmus Mundus programme) plus the actual costs including flat-rate calculated indirect costs.
On this basis, the universities received an average of 15 000 euros per student in 2015 (including the lump sum).
However, the model was not defined at any time, and it is not possible to distinguish between the activities that fall under the lump sum and those that fall under the actual costs.
The Institute should convert the cost claim to a clear and formal model based on a single method, such as a single flat rate based on cost proof.
Year 2015 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.)
C 434/70 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations Against the principle of sound financial management was rejected when another KIC partner commissioned public relations services with daily rates of between 800 and 3 250 euros per person, which were reimbursed by the Institute in full (7).
For the organisation of conferences on innovation scheduled for 2015 and 2016, the Institute drew on a framework contract from the Commission.
The prices agreed for these services ranged from 800 euros per day for a junior consultant and 2 250 euros per day for a senior consultant (and were almost four times as high as the rate set for a leader in the framework agreement).
The services provided at these prices are more than 100 000 euros per conference.
The Court identified weaknesses in the ex post inspections of the procurement procedures carried out by the legal entities of the KIC.
At least one of the KIC's legal entities was not representative for the population to select the award procedures to be applied.
In addition, the Court reached a different conclusion in two procurement procedures regarding their legal status and regularity.
In these cases, the Institute had accepted the direct specification or the additional extensions of the contents.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded in its audit report ăGrant Management: Transition to Horizon 2020 (Financial Assistance Administration: transition to Horizon 2020) that the Institute has successfully adapted its procedures to the rules applicable to Horizon 2020, in particular to the rules for participation, and that the controls carried out by the Institute during the initial phase have generally proved to be an effective means of supporting new KICs.
The IAS also concluded that measures must be taken urgently to ensure the reliable application of the current legal framework for Horizon 2020 and to further improve the start-up phase of new KICs.The Institute and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
At 0.4 million euros and 40 % respectively (2015: 0.4 million euros and 44 %), the rate of committed appropriations for Title II was high for the following financial year.
These transfers concern mainly year-round IT services and meeting costs, which have not yet been received.
Year 2015 2015 Progress of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) n.e.c. 2016 Completion 2016 In progress 2016 n.e.c.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/71 EN Court's observations The financial assistance for the calendar year 2015 was only awarded in April 2015 and the grant agreements signed in June and July 2015.
The financial assistance and the signing of the grant agreements were awarded in April 2016 for the calendar year 2016.
Despite an improvement in 2016, these delays in the decisions on the granting of grants and the signing of grant agreements lead to uncertainty and the willingness of the partners to commit resources and to initiate activities at the beginning of the year.
The most recent calls for new KICs, whose thematic areas were defined in the Strategic Innovation Agenda of the EIT for the period 2014-2020, were not competitive.
Only seven proposals were submitted for the call for two KICs (Health and RawMaterials) launched in 2014.
Following the 2016 call for two additional KICs (Food and Manufacturing) three proposals were received, and the only proposal for KIC manufacturing (added value in manufacturing) was not selected from Qualit-tsgr-den.
The director's post has been filled since August 2014 
This not only violates the statute, which states that the temporary occupation cannot last longer than a year, but that the frequent changes and long-term interim changes also confuse stakeholders and affect the strategic continuity. The institute is an important player in the implementation of the Horizon 2020 programme with a budget of 2.4 billion euros in the period 2014-2020.
The Commission has created a central support body for Horizon 2020 to ensure coherence between the programme-run bodies in areas such as legal services, IT tools, grant management, dissemination and exploitation of research results, etc.
However, unlike the Commission's executive agencies and public-private partnerships, the Institute does not have direct access to the support body, but must have the Commission's superordinate directorate-general approve it.
This requirement affects the efficiency of the Institute's activities.
Year 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
C 434/72 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's observations The coordination and representation of KICs is carried out by the legal entities of KICs, which are financed almost entirely by the Institute.
The Court paid particular attention to the procurement procedures carried out by these bodies, which it considers to be a highly risky area.
In accordance with the 2015 grant agreements, the legal entities of the KIC and/or the KIC partners must ensure that the best possible price-performance ratio is achieved in procurement or 
For all contracts of more than EUR 60 000, the legal entities of the KICs and/or the KIC partners shall, according to the grant agreements, require at least three economic operators to tender and document the award procedure to demonstrate its transparency.
The Court carried out a sample of procurement procedures worth around 7 million euros, which were carried out by the legal entities of the KIC and financed entirely by the EIT.
The examination revealed significant shortcomings, such as direct procurement, lack of essential elements in tenders, and significant increases in the original expenditures in terms of duration and/or scope, without limitation of duration and/or scope or quality/price weightings, which led to price competition.
The Institute also identified the M-Angels in the procurement procedures of a KIC legal entity and drew up an action plan to improve the procurement procedures of all KIC legal entities in the future.
Despite the substantial increase in the budget from EUR 309 million (2008-2013) to EUR 2.4 billion (2014-2020) and despite the fact that there have been six KICs since the end of 2016, and no longer three KICs as before, the number of posts approved to the Institute has barely changed (see Table 2).
As the Court noted in its Special Report No 4/2016 (9), there is a risk that the Institute will not have sufficient capacity to address the increased workload.
The interim director of the institute has pointed to this risk in the annual report of the institute for 2015.
Year of adoption of the correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) 2016 In the course of 2016 Outstanding (not under the supervision of the Institute) (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) Since 2016, administrative costs have been capped in the grant agreements.
The budget requirements for 2016 were too high by 13.1 million euros and 5.0 % respectively (2015: 25 million euros and 9.4%), so that only 249.9 million euros of the available 263 million euros were committed.
The unused funds can be entered in the budget 2017-2019.
The EIT financed an average of 90% of the eligible costs reported by the KICs under the 2015 grant agreements.
The amounts collected by the KICs from various sources represented 2.5% of the EIT's requested funding.
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology must change its implementation mechanisms and some conceptual elements to deliver the expected impact.
The EIT continues to interpret the EIT Regulation differently, as set out in its response to the 2015 report.
In 2016, universities received an average of 17 000 euros per year and student based on the model described, which is based on a combination of actual costs and lump sums. The model was formally established at the end of 2016 and will be applied from 2017.
In 2016 (2015 financial assistance framework), the EIT reimbursed 410 000 euros for this order.
The leadership position was occupied in February 2018.
In June 2018, the Commission initiated the recruitment procedure for the Director's post.
Special Report No 4/2016: The European Institute of Innovation and Technology must change its implementation mechanisms and some conceptual elements to deliver the expected impact.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/73 REPLY OF THE INSTITUTE 3.9.7.
The EIT should clarify that changes in the individual grant agreements under the KIC framework partnership agreements of the EIT can be submitted at any time during the period of application.
The KICs' change proposals were submitted to a technical and financial assessment by the EIT and prior approval by the European Commission.
The changes were subsequently signed in December 2016.
In the case of EIT Climate-KIC, the KIC was formally notified of the approval of the amendment request on 21 December 2016 (i.e. within the period of application).
As regards the increase in individual reimbursements, the EIT points out that the KICs did not receive any additional financial assistance as a result of the changes to the individual financial assistance agreements in 2016.
The total amount of the final financial assistance (241.8 million euros) was significantly lower than the amount initially awarded (274.9 million euros).
As regards the call for KICs to develop their own sources of financing and to become financially viable, we refer to our response to section 3.9.15.
In the context of the assessment of the change proposals, the EIT, after consulting the European Commission, concluded that the adjustment of the individual refund measures was in line with the applicable legal basis and did not affect the equal treatment of KICs.
The possibility of adjusting the individual refund rates was open to all KICs on equal terms.
As regards the second observation, the EIT considers that the amendments complied with Article 180(4) of the Financial Regulation's implementing provisions, since they did not call into question the decisions on the award of grants and did not run counter to equal treatment of applicants.
It should be noted that there is no provision for a materiality threshold which shows what change of a measure is to be considered as significant in assessing whether the change is relevant for the grant.
Whether the inclusion of new activities corresponds to the provision in question must be determined on the basis of the relevance and impact of the activities for the entire KIC business plan in individual cases.
The EIT carried out the assessment before the approval of the change proposals and concluded that the changes did not call into question the decisions on the grant.
Since each KIC had the power to include new and new activities in its changed business on equal terms, equal treatment of KIC was also ensured.
Finally, the EIT points out that in the case of EIT InnoEnergy, the only activity that could be considered was only 3.9% of the modified budget estimate of the KICs' business plan.
For EIT Digital, this share was 0.6%.
3.9.10.
3.9.12.
The updated versions of the contingency plan and the plan for re-launching following a system breakdown are adopted by the EIT in 2018.
3.9.13.
The 2016 individual financial assistance agreements with EIT Health and EIT RawMaterials were signed later than planned, as the framework partnership agreements had to be signed first.
The individual financial assistance agreements for 2017 and 2018 were systematically signed in February, so that the KICs could start their activities in good time during the year.
Due to their dynamic and fast-moving nature, innovative measures cannot be planned linearly.
Some innovation projects or projects do not meet the expectations of their potential and must be discontinued during the implementation of the grant agreements. Moreover, some of the operational activities of the KICs, such as master and doctoral studies or long-term research and innovation projects, are planned from the outset for several years.
The EIT intends to address this issue after 2020 by entering into multiannual grant agreements with KICs, provided that the EIT budget allocates corresponding appropriations for commitments in multiannual tranches.
In fact, the EIT has followed the methodology required by the legal basis ăHorizont 2020, for the calculation of grants without restriction, and will continue to comply with the current legislation.
The financial sustainability of KIC is a unique ambition of the EIT-KIC model and one of the most difficult aspects of the EIT's mission.
In the meantime, some of the innovation communities can already have a serious co-financing with which they are competing, and generate considerable revenue compared to their budgets.
EIT Digital has co-financed 26% (22 million euros) to cover the costs of the 2016 KIC value added activities. In addition, the partner organisations have carried out and paid additional KIC activities in excess of 200 million euros.
Another example is EIT Health: KIC generated a respectable amount of revenues of over EUR 6 million in its first year of operation compared to the total funding it received from the EIT (around EUR 19 million).
EN C 434/74 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.9.17.
The EIT intends to introduce the tools for electronic tendering and the electronic submission of tenders after the necessary agreements have been concluded with the European Commission.
3.9.18.
The European Commission has announced the position of EIT Director on 1 June 2018 (91).
The first staff members came to the EIT in 2010 and thus reached the maximum employment of ten years in 2020.
The EIT is aware of the risks that were also highlighted in the Annual Report of the EIT for 2017.
The EIT requested the legal opinion of the European Commission by letter dated 14 May 2018.
OJ C 187 A, 1.6.2018, p. 6.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/75 3.10.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE SAFETY OF SEA TRANSPORT (EMSA) INTRODUCTION 3.10.1.
The European Maritime Safety Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Lisbon, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1406/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council (92).
The Agency's tasks include ensuring a high level of maritime safety, preventing pollution from ships, providing technical assistance to Member States and the Commission, and monitoring the application of Union legislation and assessing its effectiveness.
3.10.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (93).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 79 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 250 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments. (2) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROVISION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (94) and the budget implementation reports (95) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 208, 5.8.2002, p. 1.
(93) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.emsa.europa.eu.
(94) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(95) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/76 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.10.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.10.6.
3.10.7.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.10.8.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with a contractor on the acquisition of software licenses and maintenance and support services on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency).
The contractor of the framework agreement acts as intermediary between the agency and companies that can meet the needs of the agency.
For these intermediate services, the contractor of the framework agreement adds two to nine percent to the supplier prices. In 2017, the contractor of the framework agreement made payments in H-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-h-
The Agency did not systematically compare the calculated prices and breakdowns with the offers of the companies and did not systematically check the invoices issued to the contractor of the framework agreement. COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.10.9. The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.10.10.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (96) (97). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.10.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented expert reports on project-funded measures and human resources management(98) in 2017.
3.10.12.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance was carried out on behalf of the Commission in the period 2011-2016 (99).
The Agency drew up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
(96) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(97) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic administration (ăe-Government),
(98) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
(99) The Court did not carry out this evaluation work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/77 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations In 2014, the Agency concluded a six-year framework agreement worth EUR 3.5 million for the acquisition of goods and services in the IT sector.
The agency supported the demand and expected order value, which led to the contract being 80% cancelled at the end of 2016.
A new procurement procedure must be launched four years earlier than expected, which will create additional administrative costs.
In 2016, the Agency completed seven framework contracts for the acquisition of pollution control systems.
Each framework contract (one lot in the procurement procedure) was based on a specific selection.
The award procedure was initiated in the assumption that the total value of the seven framework contracts would be EUR 7 million.
However, this assumption was taken into account by the Agency, and seven framework contracts were signed for a total of EUR 7 million each, which resulted in a total value of EUR 49 million.
Year 2016 2016 Progress of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) n.e.c.
EN C 434/78 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.10.8.
The Agency will remind the responsible project managers to consistently carry out the necessary controls on the prices charged by the provider and/or to verify whether the correct deadlines are applied.
EMSA will also invite the leading public contracting authority in this framework agreement to ask the contractor regularly to always attest the market price/addition when responding to offer requirements.
3.10.9.
Following a court decision, EPSO decided that only job advertisements in the official languages of the EU or in the languages indicated in the Agency's legal act can be published on the EPSO website.
Due to the high translation costs of this new policy (about 19000 EUR per advertised post), EMSA 
This point was raised by some agencies in December 2015 against the EPSO.
EMSA would like to see a solution that would provide both sufficient transparency and the principle of sound financial management.
The Agency is committed to making its job advertisements known to a broad audience by spreading them on various social media used by many people.
It should be noted that most of EMSA's job advertisements are directed to technical professionals who regularly access the EMSA website.
In 2017, EMSA made extensive preparations for adapting all internal procedures to the use of e-procurement.
EMSA can best confirm that it has been introducing the modules for electronic procurement since the beginning of 2018.
The deadline for the use of electronic procurement by EU bodies is October 2018.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/79 3.11.
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR NETWORK AND INFORMATION SECURITY (ENISA) INTRODUCTION 3.11.1.
The European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also known as the Agency, was established in Athens and Heraklion(100), by Regulation (EC) No 460/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (101), which was replaced by Regulation (EU) No 526/2013 (102) after several amendments.
The Agency's main task is to improve the Union's ability to deal with and address network and information security problems by taking advantage of the measures implemented at national and EU level.
3.11.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (103).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 11 Total staff numbers on 31 December (1) 70 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (104) and the financial implementation reports (105) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
(100) The Agency's operational staff were transferred to Athens in March 2013.
OJ L 77, 13.3.2004, p. 1.
OJ L 165, 18.6.2013, p. 41.
(103) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.enisa.europa.eu.
(104) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(105) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/80 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.11.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.11.6.
3.11.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.11.8.
The new accountant of the Agency took office on 1 December 2017.
The transfer process was not executed by the law and did not meet the requirements of Article 55 of the implementing provisions.
In particular, no transfer report was sent to the new accountant. COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.11.9. The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.11.10.
EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORT 3.11.11.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance was carried out on behalf of the Commission in the period 2013-2016 (106).
CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.11.12. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(106) The court did not overrule this work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/81 (1) According to ENISA, the number of employees was reduced to 11 at the end of 2017. 2015 2016 Progress of the correction decision (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.) In progress n. z. z. DE ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Statements by the Court The Agency plans to transfer the administrative staff from Heraklion to Athens in 2016.
The rate of committed appropriations carried over to the following financial year is high for Title II (administrative expenditure) at 0.3 million euros and 25% (2015: 0.15 million euros and 22%).
This high rate is mainly due to transfers of funds under Title I (staff expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) and is primarily related to IT investments made shortly before the end of the year and the acquisition of a service car.
As foreseen in the Agency's financial rules, external evaluations of the Agency's performance for 2014 and 2015 were carried out, and final reports were submitted in October 2015 and May 2016 respectively.
The 2014 evaluation concluded that the operational core competences carried out under the 2014 Work Programme are clearly related to the Agency's legal mandate and that the Agency's effectiveness has been well assessed.
However, there was a need for improvement in the division of the Agency between Heraklion and Athens, which leads to heavy work and a lack of communication and cooperation.
The 2015 evaluation concluded that the Agency's activities and outputs meet a need for network and information security across the EU and in the Member States and that the Agency effectively meets the expectations of its stakeholders.
However, the report stressed that communication between the Agency and its stakeholders 
The Agency is implementing an action plan which it has agreed with the Management Board.
In 2016, the Agency moved eight more employees to Athens, reducing the number of employees in Heraklion to 14 (1).
As the Court pointed out in its 2013 report, costs could probably be further reduced by pooling all personnel at one site.
EN C 434/82 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.11.8.
Although the transfer to the new accountant was never formalized, informal meetings with the former current accountant were held to pass on knowledge.
The new accountant also received an updated training on SAP to ensure a good understanding of the accounting system.
Nevertheless, ENISA will take corrective measures to ensure an adequate transfer between outgoing and new staff.
3.11.9.
All job offers published by EPSO must be translated into all official EU languages.
Unfortunately, given its limited budget, ENISA is unable to bear these costs.
However, the Agency uses traditional and social media and has committed to working on an agency-wide portal to reduce the risks associated with posting job advertisements, as many of the decentralised institutions face the same problem.
ENISA has not carried out a formal operational and financial impact assessment of Brexit, as it does not have a significant direct impact on the budget, operation and administration of ENISA.
Nevertheless, internal procedures (n.e. procurement and recruitment) were revised in the context of Brexit.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/83 3.12.
EUROPEAN UNION IRON AGENCY (ERA) INTRODUCTION 3.12.1.
The European Union Railway Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Lille and Valenciennes, was established by Regulation (EC) No 881/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council, replaced by Regulation (EU) 2016/796 of the European Parliament and of the Council ( 107).
The Agency's mission is to improve the interoperability of rail systems and to develop a common approach to safety in order to contribute to the creation of a more competitive European rail sector with a high level of safety.
3.12.2.
The table below gives the main figures for the Agency (108).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 31 Total staff numbers on 31 December (1) 164 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROPOSAL FOR A RELIABILITY OF THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENT FINAL PRESENTATION OF 2016 28 155 PRESENTATION JUDGMENT 3.12.3.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (109) and the annual accounts reports (110) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
(107) OJ L 347, 31.12.1990; Bull.
3, and OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
The latter Regulation replaces the original designation of the Agency 
(108) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.era.europa.eu.
(109) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(110) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/84 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.12.6.
3.12.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.12.8.
In December 2016, the Agency's accountant was appointed interim head of the Financial and Procurement Department in addition to this function.
In this additional function, it is responsible for the management of staff, which is responsible for the introduction and supervision of commitments and payments.
The financial rules of the Agency shall stipulate that those financial operators shall be subject to the authorising officer.
However, according to the principle of separation of duties, powers of instruction and accounting are separate functions and exclude each other.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with a contractor on the acquisition of IT hardware and software and on maintenance and support services (IT services) on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency).
In the event of a paid payment of about 47 000 euros, the agency had acquired IT services via the contractor without competitive process or prior market analysis. In 2017, payments to the contractor in total amounted to 1.1 million euros.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.12.10.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the Agency's human resources and competence management(111).
The Agency has drawn up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years. (111) The Court did not carry out these audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/85 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations The Agency's headquarters are in Lille and Valenciennes.
As the Court notes in its 2006 annual report, costs could probably be reduced by combining all activities in one location.
This could also facilitate the conclusion of a comprehensive siting agreement with the Member State in which the Agency is based, and the conditions under which the Agency and its staff would thus be regulated.
Year 2013 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) In progress (not under the control of the Agency)
EN C 434/86 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.12.8.
The Agency is currently undergoing a major restructuring to take account of its new tasks.
The plan, in line with the action plan agreed with the Internal Audit Service, aims to establish an appropriate separation of tasks for the accountant.
3.12.9.
As the Court has stated, the contract was used in accordance with the contractual provisions of the DIGIT framework agreement DI07360.
All other developments concerning economic budget management shall be notified to the contract manager, i.e. DG DIGIT.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/87 3.13.
EUROPEAN SECURITIES AND MARKET SUPERVISION INTRODUCTION 3.13.1.
The European Securities and Markets Authority (hereinafter called the Beh-rde, also known as the ăESMA), based in Paris, was established by Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (112). 3.13.2.
The objective of the Directive is to improve the functioning of the internal financial market by ensuring a high, effective and coherent level of regulation and supervision, by maintaining the integrity and stability of financial systems and by strengthening international coordination in the supervision of the stability and effectiveness of the financial system.
3.13.3.
The table contains the most important figures for the survey (113).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 42 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 226 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
We have a) the annual accounts of the accounts of the financial statements(114) and the reports on budget implementation (115) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty, on the functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84.
(113) Further information on the conditions and activities of the authorities can be found on their website www.esma.europa.eu.
(114) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(115) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/88 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.13.6. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.13.7.
Note 3.13.8.
Without questioning its judgment, the Court points out that the United Kingdom has notified the European Council on 29 March 2017 of its decision to withdraw from the European Union.
An agreement on the details of the withdrawal is currently being negotiated.
The budget of the budget is 27% financed from the European Union, 42% from direct contributions from the EU Member States and 29% from contributions from the supervised bodies (rating agencies and trade repositories). The other 2% come from other sources.
The withdrawal of the United Kingdom could have an impact on the activities of the authorities, since the main supervised institutions are currently based there.
3.13.9.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.13.10. The Office publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not always on the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO) website.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.13.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented a review report on ESMA's peer review procedure in 2017 at competent national hearings (116).
The Behtung then drew up an action plan.
3.13.12.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the three European supervisory authorities (117) was carried out on behalf of the Commission (118).
(116) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
(117) ESMA, the European Banking Authority and the European Supervisory Authority for insurance and occupational pensions.
(118) The Court has not carried out this evaluation work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/89 REPLY OF THE REPLY 3.13.7.
ESMA recognises the problem and will continue to monitor developments in the Brexit negotiations.
EPSO has decided to publish ESMA's job advertisements on its website only if the job advertisements are available in 24 languages.
In 2017, the translation costs to be borne by ESMA (fif job advertisements of 16) amounted to 32 431 euros.
ESMA considers that the costs for translating all job offers in 23 languages are not justified in terms of economic budget management and has therefore decided to use other media in which the majority of EU agencies publish their job offers.
EN C 434/90 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.14.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR SAFETY AND HEALTH AT WORK (EU-OSHA) INTRODUCTION 3.14.1.
The European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also located in Bilbao, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2062/94 (119).
The Agency's tasks include collecting and disseminating information on national and EU priorities in the field of safety and health at work, supporting national and EU institutions involved in policy-making and implementation, and informing about preventive measures.
3.14.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (120).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 15 Total staff numbers on 31 December (1) 64 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROVISION OF THE COURT OF FIRST INSTITUTIONS OF THE INDEPENDENT FINAL PRESENTATION IN 2016 17 65 PRESENTATION JUDGMENT 3.14.3.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (121) and the financial implementation reports (122) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
(119) OJ L 347, 31.12.1990; Bull.
1. This Regulation was last amended by Council Regulation (EC) No 1112/2005 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2005, p.
(120) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.osha.europa.eu.
(121) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(122) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/91 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.14.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.14.6.
3.14.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.14.8.
The head of the agency's accountant is the head of the Resource and Service Centre.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY FOOD 3.14.9.
The funds transferred for Title II (administrative expenditure) and Title III (operational expenditure) were 40% for each title or EUR 3.5 million, which is in contradiction with the budgetary principle of annuality.
There is no indication that the funds transferred are linked to expenditure planned during the budgetary procedure.
In December 2017, the agency ordered IT equipment and B-rom-ebel, for example, an amount of EUR 220 000.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (123) (124). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT comprehensive, which covers all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
The Agency had not introduced any of these tools by the end of 2017.
3.14.11.
Unlike most other agencies, the agency did not undertake a comprehensive analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, operations and accounting.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.14.12. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(123) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(124) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
C 434/92 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2016 2016 Outstanding In progress DE ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Court observations At EUR 417 279 or 30% (2015: EUR 364 740 or 26 %), the rate of committed appropriations for the financial year 2017 was high for Title II (administrative expenditure).
These transfers mainly concern IT services which were not yet fully provided or invoiced at the end of the year.
The commitment appropriations for Title III for the following financial year amounted to EUR 3370616 and 43% respectively (2015: EUR 3383052 and 41%).
These transfers mainly concern research projects and studies lasting more than a year.
In 2014, the Agency concluded a framework agreement on IT consulting services for the period 2014-2017, covering a total amount of 1.1 million euros.
Although the individual contracts signed in 2016 clearly defined project performance, consultants were required to do so on the basis of time and resources. The price is not fixed and directly linked to the performance, but is based on the number of working days worked.
In addition, in 2016, around 50% of the IT consulting services were provided outside the Agency's premises, so that the Agency was only able to monitor the efficient implementation of the facilities only to a limited extent.
In 2016, payments made under the terms of this framework agreement amounted to around 0.4 million euros.
The Agency's regulation on the establishment of the Agency does not explicitly require external evaluations of its activities.
The Commission's proposal for a new regulation provides that an evaluation must be carried out every five years. Year 2016 The corrective action (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.) In progress (not under the control of the Agency)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/93 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.14.8.
From organizational reasons the accountant is assigned in the organization chart to the resource and service center, whereby he spends his time in the services of the financial personnel.
The accountant is, however, directly under the responsibility of the Director (not the Head of the Resource and Service Centre) to ensure his independence.
3.14.9.
The transfers for Title III relate to major research projects with a duration of more than one year and are connected with the annual work programme 2017.
The transfers under Title II are primarily for services, for which there are two calendar years.
As regards the amount in H-h-h-0,2 million euros, it should be noted that the amount of funds for Title II since 2014 and the Agency's move to new premises, which led to savings of 0.6 million euros per year, has been reduced to 1.4 million euros.
In 2017, the appropriations for Title II were further reduced by EUR 60 000 by a amending budget adopted in June, which is due to a reduction in the contribution of local authorities to the EU-OSHA infrastructure budget.
The majority of the relevant procurements for IT execution were planned for 2018 (and documented as such in the draft budget for 2017 and in further budgeting phases), but the necessary commitments (100 000 euros) were finally made in 2017, as a means of implementation.
As of the 2019 budget, the programming document will be included in a list of possible additional IT procurements, provided, for example, that the funds available are available for the implementation of the programme due to the frequent renegotiation of prices.
The transfer between the titles (comprising the provisions of the framework financial regulation) was notified to the Board of Directors, the Parliament and the Council.
3.14.10.
Since the end of 2016, the Agency has been providing electronic access to all procedures initiated (ex-ante announcements of low or medium value contracts and contract notices) via its website, with special e-mail addresses for the award of public contracts being provided.
2018 (target: October) the agency will introduce the electronic call tool for the publication and processing of information requests until submission of offers.
The Agency has now carried out an analysis of the potential impact of Brexit on its organisation, its operations and its accounting.
EN C 434/94 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.15.
EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR IMPROVING LIVING AND WORKING CONDITIONS (EUROFOUND) INTRODUCTION 3.15.1.
The European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (hereinafter referred to as the Foundation), based in Dublin, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1365/75 (125).
The Foundation's task is to contribute to the design and creation of better living and working conditions in the Union by promoting and disseminating relevant knowledge.
3.15.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Foundation (126).
Table Key figures for the Foundation 2017 Budget (million euros) 20 Total staff on 31 December (1) 100 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Foundation.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROTECTION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Foundation's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (127) and the financial implementation reports (128) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The financial statements of the Foundation for the year ending 31 December 2017 constitute the financial and financial situation of the Foundation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its financial statements and cash flows and the changes in the net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 139, 30.5.1975, p. 1.
(126) Further information on the Foundation's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.eurofound.europa.eu.
(127) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(128) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/95 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.15.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.15.6.
3.15.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.15.8.
In the course of this year's examination of EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the hierarchical position and independence of its auditors.
The Foundation is the head of the Administration and Finance Department and the head of the accountant.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (129) (130). As a requirement also applies to EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT comprehensive, covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
According to the Commission, the Foundation had initiated electronic invoicing and electronic tendering for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not the electronic submission of tenders.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.15.10. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(129) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(130) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
C 434/96 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Court observations In its report on the 2014 financial statements, the Court pointed out that employees' contributions were too low in the period 2005-2014, which was linked to the transition to the new EU Staff Regulations in 2005.
Although the under-representations have different dimensions (2014: non-compliance with the guaranteed minimum requirements; 2015: application of a false multiplication factor to the beneficiaries), the Court again noted too low reductions (43350 euros) and some over-representations (168930 euros) which concerned 30 active and earlier employees.
Eurofound corrected all the too low fees, but will not demand the higher fees (in accordance with Article 85 of the current Staff Regulations).
The Foundation should re-examine the errors that may have arisen in the course of the transition to the 2005 Staff Regulations and undertake a comprehensive evaluation of its payroll.
In its December 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed the need for the Foundation to improve its project management, in particular in terms of governance, monitoring and reporting.
The Foundation and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
At 2.8 million euros and 43% (2015: 2.1 million euros and 31%), the rate of committed appropriations transferred to 2016 rose to Title III (operational expenditure), which was mainly due to year-long projects (studies and pilot trials).
The Foundation may use separate budget resources to better accommodate the multi-annual nature of the activities and inevitable delays between contract signing, deliveries and payments.
The Foundation's regulation on the establishment of the Foundation does not explicitly require external evaluations of its activities.
The Commission proposal for a new regulation provides that an evaluation must be carried out every five years.
Year 2016 2016 2016 2016 Progress of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/97 REPLY OF THE FOUNDATION 3.15.8.
The Board of Directors is satisfied with the current independence of the auditor, in particular with regard to the already existing power to report directly to the Chair in accordance with Article 6.1 of the Charter of the auditor, and with regard to the participation of the Board in the appointment process.
However, a new regulation on the establishment of a body between the institutions is likely to assign the role of the employment authority to the Board of Directors rather than to the Director.
This will enable Eurofound to reassess the question of the greater independence of the accountant in the future.
3.15.9.
However, two pilot agencies have had serious problems with the software.
The software for electronic procurement is currently only available for open tenders (but not for negotiated tenders), of which Eurofound has very few per year.
Eurofound will therefore continue to follow developments and is ready to invest in electronic procurement once it is satisfied with its stability and functionality.
EN C 434/98 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.16.
AGENCY FOR EUROPEAN GNSS (GLOBAL Satellite NAVIGATION SYSTEM) (GSA) INTRODUCTION 3.16.1.
The Agency for the European GNSS (global satellite navigation system) (hereinafter the Agency), also called the ăGSA, whose seat was moved from Brussels to Prague on 1 September 2012, was created by Regulation (EU) No 912/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (132) repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 (133) on the administrative bodies of the European satellite navigation programmes and amending Regulation (EC) No 683/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council(134).
The European GNSS Advisory Board established under Council Regulation (EC) No 1321/2004 officially took over on 1 January 2007 all the tasks previously entrusted to the Galileo Joint Undertaking. e Agency continues to carry out these tasks as an agency for the European GNSS on the basis of Regulation (EU) No 912/2010 as amended.
The Commission also commissioned the Agency to operate the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay System (EGNOS) by means of a transfer agreement.
3.16.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (135).
Table Main figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) (1) Total staff at 31 December (3) 2017 704 (2) 166 2016 626 160 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
(2) The Agency received 676 million euros of this amount through transfer agreements with the Commission.
3. Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (136) and the financial implementation reports (137) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
(131) Decision 2010/803/EU of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, by common agreement (OJ L 347, 20.12.2010, p.
OJ L 276, 20.10.2010, p. 11.
OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1.
OJ L 196, 24.7.2008, p. 1.
(135) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.gsa.europa.eu.
(136) The annual accounts include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(137) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/99 Compliance with the accounting rules Jurisdiction of the audit of the accounts 3.16.4.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.16.6.
Emphasis on a matter 3.16.7.
On 15 December 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement worth EUR 1.5 billion on the operation of the Galileo satellite system during the period 2017-2027.
The agreement was awarded following a public procurement procedure.
One of the tenderers involved brought proceedings against the Agency before the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to challenge the outcome of the award procedure.
The Court of Justice of the European Union will decide on the legality and regularity of the procurement procedure for the framework agreement and all related individual and future payments.
The Agency has reported the facts in the 2017 financial statements and has explained and further indicated that in 2017 49 million euros (7 % of the 2017 budget including the amounts received by the transfer agreements) were paid out in connection with the framework agreement.
Note 3.16.8.
Negotiations on an agreement on the details of the withdrawal are currently underway.
The Agency operates both the Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) and Galileo ground stations in the United Kingdom.
In the annual accounts, the Agency shall refer to the Commission's decision to move the second location of the Galileo Security Centre (GSMC) from the United Kingdom to Spain in the chapter ăEvents after the closing date.
3.16.9.
COMMENTS ON THE EXISTENCE OF THE CURRENCY 3.16.10.
The Agency's headquarters were relocated and its mission was redefined in 2013.
In 2014, the Agency revised its financial rules and delegated its accounting function to the Commission's accounting officer in 2015.
Although these events resulted in significant changes in the Agency's procedures, the accounting system has not been validated again since 2012 (138).
(138) See also the 2015 follow-up table comment.
EN C 434/100 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.16.11. The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.16.12.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (139) (140). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT comprehensive, covering all stages of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic call for tenders in the online edition of the EU Official Journal (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
The Agency did not use any of these tools at the end of 2017.
EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORT 3.16.13.
In 2017, a mid-term evaluation of the Galileo (141) and EGNOS programmes and the Agency's performance in 2014-2016 was carried out on behalf of the Commission (142).
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.16.14. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(139) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(140) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(141) Galileo is the Global Satellite Navigation System (GNSS) of the European Union.
(142) The Court did not carry out this evaluation work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/101 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Comments of the Court of Auditors Property, plant and equipment (net book value: EUR 1.0 million) are not insured.
The accounting systems were last validated in 2012.
The promised validation of the systems due to the expected major changes in procedures and the flow of information after the relocation of the agency did not take place.
The new accountant plans the next validation for 2020.
The Agency has established Emergency Continuity Plans for the security sites in France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.
However, there is no emergency plan for the headquarters in Prague and the agency as a whole.
The Agency's annual work plan for 2015 was adopted only in March 2015, and the adoption of its multiannual work programme 2014-2020 is still pending.
The late adoption of central planning documents entails risks for the achievement of the Agency's objectives.
In 2015, the agency had a high staff turnover with 14 outgoing and 26 new employees.
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that no agency-wide annual risk assessment was carried out in 2016 and that the significant risks for the Agency are not recognised in its planning documents or in its activity reports.
In addition, IAS found that the terminology used for the various elements of the performance measurement system is not uniform, which makes performance monitoring more difficult.
The Agency and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures. At 2.8 million euros and 46% (2015: 2.5 million euros and 42%), the rate of committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) was high.
EN C 434/102 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.16.10.
The GSA agrees with the Court's comment.
In 2015, the GSA moved its accounts to the European Commission, so that the Commission's accounting officer (within the DG Budget) provides all services, including the validation of local systems, required under Article 50 of the framework financial regulation applicable to the agencies.
The validation approach is currently being developed and planned within DG Budget services.
3.16.11.
The publication of job advertisements on the EPSO platform requires translation into all EU official languages, whereas English is the Agency's only working language and the publication of vacancies in English is considered a second preselection step to ensure that our working language is first understood.
Furthermore, the translation of job advertisements into all EU official languages would mean an additional financial and time-consuming effort for the agency, so that 
In addition, the agency publishes its job advertisements also on specialized space websites.
Electronic communications in TED (published by the Office for Publications) are currently used in the GSA for the publication of contract notices, award notices, notices of corrections, modification notices, etc. whenever this is indicated in accordance with Article 264 of the applicable provisions.
The Agency also intends to use the e-Tendering system TED to create and publish tenders.
Against this background, the GSA is currently coordinating with the Office for Publications to register and create a system account.
With regard to high-value offers (above the thresholds of Article 118(1) HO), the GSA is currently undertaking the necessary administrative steps to use the module ăe Submission ăe-PRIOR (provided by DG DIGIT) of the information system developed by the European Commission to ensure that the electronic system set up for the submission of all offers meets all the requirements of the HO and AB.
It is noted that the module ăe-Submission is currently supported by open procedures and the GSA is therefore allowed to use it only for such procedures.
In this context, the GSA has already held an initial coordination meeting with DG DIGIT and is in the process of concluding and signing an agreement with it to define and start implementing the framework for ăe Submission.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/103 Agencies funded under the MFF sub-heading 2 
EUROPEAN ENVIRONMENTAL AGENCY (EEA) INTRODUCTION 3.17.1.
The European Environment Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Copenhagen, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1210/90(143).
The Agency's mission is to set up an environmental monitoring network to provide the Commission, Parliament, Member States and, more generally, public information on the state of the environment.
3.17.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (144).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 70 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 212 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Agency; the figures given include both the core budget and other resources.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROTECTION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (145) and the budget implementation reports (146) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.17.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 120, 11.5.1990, p. 1.
(144) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.eea.europa.eu.
(145) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(146) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/104 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.17.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.17.6.
3.17.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.17.8.
In the course of this year's examination of EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the hierarchical position and independence of its auditors.
The head of the Agency's accountant is the head of the administrative services.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY FURTION AND SERVICES 3.17.9. The EEA noted that one of the European Topic Centres (ETZs) implemented the 2016 Action Plan with significant reductions.
It therefore did not accept some of the results and rejected part of the costs claimed by the ETZ.
The correction of the amount of final payment also shows that the financial and performance controls have been further improved in relation to the grants granted to the ETZ.
3.17.10.
Several orders were awarded to some angels.
The Agency used several specifications for the selection criteria, which did not include minimum economic and financial performance requirements.
These criteria are not used to determine whether 
3.17.11.
The price competition was based on the daily hours offered for certain profiles in some high-value tenders and not on the time expected to be spent on the completion of the tasks.
Framework agreements were concluded with only one tenderer, although a renewed call for competition between different tenderers would lead to better results in terms of individual contracts.
3.17.12.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (147) (148). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT comprehensive, covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
3.17.13.
In particular, the decisions taken in the minutes of the selection committee were not sufficiently detailed.
The criteria used in the various stages of the selection process and the role of the individual members of the selection committee must be specified in more detail in order to improve transparency and equal treatment of candidates.
(147) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(148) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/105 3.17.14.
The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity and enable the citizens to consult job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies. The main reason the Agency has given is the high translation costs for EPSO publications, for which translations into all the official languages of the EU must be made.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY FURTION 3.17.15.
In order to implement the Copernicus transfer agreement concluded with the Commission, the Agency entered into several legal obligations linked with Copernicus before receiving the Commission's pre-financing.
Although an exceptional report signed by the Agency's Director was available for these commitments, this approach is contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.17.16. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
C 434/106 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations In 2016, the Agency updated its security approach, but many of its other internal procedures are outdated.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) carried out the procedures for drawing up the 2015 Environmental State Report (SOER) on the economic situation.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with a contractor on the acquisition of software and licenses, as well as related IT maintenance and advisory services, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency).
In 2016, the Agency used this framework agreement to purchase software licenses worth a total of 442 754 euros.
The largest order concerned the renewal of software licenses provided by an exclusive Scandinavian re-purchaser (112 248 euros).
In this case, the use of the framework agreement, which led to unnecessarily closing, was not justified. Year 2016 2016 State of acceptance of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.) Completed n.e.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/107 REPLY OF THE AGENCY REPLY REMARKS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.17.8. The Agency has commented on the Court's observations with the invoice and is convinced that the functional independence is ensured by the fact that the invoice is a staff member who is classified at a high grade (AD 12) and has direct access to the Board of Directors.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY FURTION AND SERVICES 3.17.9.
The Agency welcomes the fact that the Court wishes to further improve its management of the ETZ both in terms of financial and operational controls.
In order to re-establish the problem encountered at the ETZ in 2017, the task was removed from the annual action plan and transferred to the Agency.
The Agency is committed to maintaining the current level of control of grants granted to the ETZ.
The Agency confirms that it has changed the requirements relating to the financial performance of bidders in the course of 2017 and that the bidders are now required to provide information on financial indicators (liquid, solvency and profitability), and that a minimum turnover is required in accordance with Article 147(1)(a) of the implementing provisions (AB), which must at least be equal to the double value of the estimated annual contract value.
The Agency would like to stress once again that the decision to offer framework contracts to individual contractors was taken consciously and taking into account the fact that competition is limited to the relevant markets, as well as the nature and complexity of the services to be provided.
When awarding individual contracts based on the framework contracts, the Agency not only takes into account the contractually agreed daily rates, but also the number of days required by the contract for carrying out the tasks to calculate a value for the budget to be used for a specific individual order.
Only then will negotiations be opened with the contractor on the details of his offer, always paying attention to achieving the best price-performance ratio.
In the event of a resumption of the tender, the Agency has no control over further negotiations on the bids of the tenderers.
In accordance with the decision of the Management Board of 9 November 2015 to introduce an electronic invoicing system for the electronic handling of procurement procedures in the EEA, the Agency introduced certain procedures for electronic invoicing during 2014 and is now in the process of extending the application of this module to all its procedures, while the electronic tendering procedure has been in force for all general invitations to tender since 1 January 2015.
The integration of electronic submission of tenders was launched in early December 2017, and the first call for tenders for this module was launched on 18 June 2018 (EEA/COM/18/002 
The Agency takes note of the Court's remark and confirms that it is currently adapting its selection/ recruitment procedures to the following points: a) The completion of the individual steps in the various phases (pre-selection, selection, interview and written examination) is confirmed in the relevant documents in addition to the time (not only with the date). b) The specified questions for the interview and the written examination are systematically prepared in the pre-selection phase with the answers to be expected. c) To improve reporting, an electronic (paperless) procedure is introduced.
3.17.14.
The EPSO has rejected a publication for the agency with the view that the precondition that all job offers are to be translated into all official languages is not fulfilled.
The Agency does not, however, have the resources or resources to respond to the request of the EPSO.
In this case, not only all job offers should be translated, but also the applications should be processed in all official languages, which is associated with unsustainable additional costs.
Like most other EU agencies, the Agency has therefore looked for an alternative to the EPSO website and has been using a website that fulfils the same purpose since May 2018, the job vacancies and the jobs created and maintained by the EU agencies network.
In addition, the agency uses LinkedIn, its own website and Facebook pages to ensure the best possible distribution.
EN C 434/108 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY FURTION 3.17.15.
Before concluding the transfer agreement for Copernicus with DG GROW, the Agency has subsequently indicated that the conditions for pre-financing are not compatible with the financial regulation (Article 7 AR of the 2014 Financial Regulation).
First, DG GROW was very clear in its reply, but DG BUDG, responsible for the preparation of the standard template, refused to change the transfer agreement.
After the implementation of the transfer agreement began, the Agency continued to point out the problems and stated that it was regularly forced to apply exceptions in order to continue its operational activity; this prompted DG GROW to change the pre-financing conditions of the transfer agreement in August 2017 and to make additional pre-financing in November 2017.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/109 3.18.
EUROPEAN FISHERIES AGENCY (EFCA) INTRODUCTION 3.18.1.
The European Fisheries Control Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also known as the ‘EFCA', was established in Vigo by Council Regulation (EC) No 768/2005(149).
3.18.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (150).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 17 Total staff numbers on 31 December (2) 72 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments. (2) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (151) and the financial implementation reports (152) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 128, 21.5.2005, p. 1.
(150) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.efca.europa.eu.
(151) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(152) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/110 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.18.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.18.6.
3.18.7.
Internal Audit Service reports and external evaluation reports 3.18.8.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented the Agency with a report on 
The Agency and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
3.18.9.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency was carried out on behalf of the Board (154).
The Agency prepared a plan for implementing the recommendations.
(153) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
(154) The Court has not carried out this evaluation work.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/111 AGENCY REPLY The Agency takes note of the Court's report.
EN C 434/112 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under the MFR sub-heading 3 
The European Union Agency for the Training of Law Enforcement (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also located in Budapest, was established by Regulation (EU) 2015/2219 of the European Parliament and of the Council (155), repealing and replacing Council Decision 2005/681/JHA (156).
3.19.2.
The following table gives the main figures for the Agency (157).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 9 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 53 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (158) and the financial implementation reports (159) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.19.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
Regulation (EU) 2015/2219 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the European Union Agency for the Training of Law Enforcement (EPO) and on the replacement and repeal of Council Decision 2005/681/JHA (OJ L 347, 20.12.2015, p.
OJ L 256, 1.10.2005, p. 63.
(157) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.cepol.europa.eu.
(158) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(159) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/113 Legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.19.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.19.6.
3.19.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.19.8.
The Agency delegated its accounting function to the Commission's accounting officer in 2014.
In addition, the Agency's headquarters were relocated in 2014 and its mission was redefined in 2016.
Although these events led to changes in the procedures of the Agency, the accounting system has not been validated again since 2013.
In December 2016, the Agency concluded a framework agreement with an economic operator with a value of 1.6 million euros and a four-year term on the provision of temporary work facilities.
The only competition criterion in the procurement procedure was the price.
A framework agreement with several companies selected on the basis of price and quality criteria would have been better in terms of timely provision of high quality services.
3.19.10.
On March 29, 2017, the United Kingdom informed the European Council of its decision to withdraw from the European Union (Brexit).
3.19.11.
The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity and enable the citizens to consult job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies.
3.19.1.12.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (160) (161). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.19.13.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a review report on the needs assessment, planning and budgeting of training measures at the Agency (162).
The Agency drew up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
(160) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(161) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(162) The Court has not over-prunk the work carried out by the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS).
C 434/114 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Court observations At 140 055 euro or 30% (2015: 212 456 euro or 49%), the rate of committed appropriations for Title II (expenditures for supporting activities) was high.
The staff turnover is high, which could have an impact on the maintenance of the business and the ability of the Agency to carry out the activities provided for in its work programme.
Between 2013 and 2016, the number of employees from the host country increased from one to 16, which corresponds to 31% of the total workforce in 2016.
The small number of applications from other Member States is the correction coefficient for the host country (69%), which is applicable in terms of salary costs, and competition with another EU body, which is also located in Budapest.
Year 2016 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) n.e.c.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/115 AGENCY REPLY 3.19.8.
CEPOL agrees with the Court's comment.
In 2014, CEPOL moved its accounts to the European Commission, so that the Commission's accounting officer (within the DG Budget) provides all services, including the validation of local systems, required under Article 50 of the framework financial regulation applicable to the agencies.
The validation approach is currently being developed and planned within DG Budget services.
3.19.9.
The Agency has taken note of the Court's observations but does not share its opinion.
The quality criteria were included in the technical specifications and the bidders who did not comply with the criteria were excluded.
The decision to award a single framework contract is based on previous experiences and specific features of the national labour market.
The Agency has taken note of the Court's observations.
The Brexit was followed closely by meetings of the leadership, discussions in the NAPO (agency-wide network of procurement officers) and the IALN (agency-wide legal network) and the communications sent by the Commission.
The risks for CEPOL were assessed as low but not officially documented.
The estimated costs for the translation of job advertisements into all EU official languages, as required for publication on the EPSO website, are considered too high given the expected benefits.
From 2018, CEPOL will also publish all vacancies on the agency's cross-cutting Jobb such as the one developed by the EU Agency Network.
The Agency has taken note of the Court's observations and confirmed that progress is being made in the introduction of electronic submissions in cooperation with DG DIGIT.
3-19.13.
The Agency confirms that progress has been made in implementing the Action Plan, with two out of four recommendations being assessed as being implemented by the Internal Audit Service.
EN C 434/116 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.
EUROPEAN SUPPORT BROAD FOR ASYLUM INTRODUCTION 3.20.1.
The European Asylum Support Office (hereinafter referred to as the B'ro', also known as the 'EASO') was established in Valletta by Regulation (EU) No 439/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council (163) to promote practical cooperation in the field of asylum and to support Member States in fulfilling their European and international obligations to protect vulnerable people.
Since 2015, the B sucho has supported Greece and Italy in the context of the migration crisis.
3.20.2.
Table 1 contains the most important figures for the B sucho (164).
Table 1 Key figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 79 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 200 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
(2) Staff shall comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the B-ro. Declaration of the Court of Auditors of the European Parliament and of the Council on the independence of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, 2016
We have a) audited the annual accounts of the financial year(165) and the financial implementation reports (166) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the financial year in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The annual accounts of the B such account shall be the annual and financial position of the B such account as of 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending on that date in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 132, 29.5.2010, p. 11.
(164) Further information on the B's capabilities and capabilities can be found on its website www.easo.europa.eu.
(165) The annual accounts include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(166) The budget implementation reports include all revenue and expenditure estimates and the explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/117 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.20.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Basis for the failure to give a ruling on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.20.6.
Paragraphs 3.20.9-3.20.31 describe essential and systematic provisions against the financial regulations of the bank and other rules and provisions concerning payments. Payments made in connection with procurement and recruitment procedures were particularly affected.
The cumulative error due to the irregular payments concerns at least 7.7 million euros and 10.3% of the total payments made by the B
Judgment of the Court of Justice on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.20.7.
According to our assessment, the payments underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 are error-prone in the main statement of the facts described in the ăBasic statement for the failed judgment on the legality and regularity of the payments underlying the financial year.
Emphasis on a point of view 3.20.8.
From the end of 2017, the personnel situation at the B
At management level, four out of ten head of unit and 18 out of 27 head of unit were not filled.
In the department of administration, three out of four head of unit and five out of ten head of unit were not filled, which means a serious challenge for the management level of the B-ros.
In addition, 129 temporary staff were filled at the end of May 2018, 78 of them still open.
71 of the contract staff were still employed and 13 were still open.
The B sucho currently does not have the administrative capacity to fill so many vacancies (see Table 2).
Overall, the continuation of the B such activities is considerably affected by this situation.
EN C 434/118 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Table 2 Organigram of the B
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/119 COMMENTS ON LEGALITY AND ORDER OF PAYMENTS AND INTERNAL CONTROLS The nature of its activities gives rise to large risks for the B20.9.
Since 2016, the B sucho has been facing unprecedented expansion of tasks and activities to provide operational and technical support to Member States in the context of the migration crisis.
This is reflected in an increase in the budget from the original EUR 19 million in 2016 to EUR 79 million following the second change in the budget in 2017.
The number of procurement procedures increased from 87 in 2015 to 140 in 2017.
Payments increased by 225% from 2 578 in 2015 to 8 381 in 2017.
3.20.10.
The B sucho is one of the few institutions of the European Union that has several locations.
In addition to its headquarters in Malta, with 179 staff, the B sucho manages two large support activities in Greece and Italy, involving 747 experts from Member States and associated countries, 202 cultural mediators (interpreters), 178 temporary workers and 21 staff members of the B such agency.
3.20.11.
As the Court has already stated in its Special Report No 6/2017 on the EU response to the refugee crisis: the hotspot concept, the B sucho is highly dependent on Member States providing sufficient resources.
The efficiency of the activities is particularly affected by the fact that Member States send their experts for a very short period of time (six to eight weeks).
The extraordinary operational challenge of the migration crisis was not weakened by a sound management structure and effective internal controls 3.20.12.
When the activities to support Greece and Italy were launched in 2015, the B sucho was confronted with the fact that Member States provided insufficient resources for deployments.
The B sucho had already had difficulties in filling the posts provided for in his establishment plan.
Since 2014, the court has regularly repeated its remark that the B sucho has to struggle with a high staff turnover.
The Court has repeatedly stressed in its previous annual reports that this situation represents a serious risk for achieving the objectives set out in the annual and multiannual work programmes.
Despite repeated attempts (36 recruitment procedures and 100 new contracts in 2017), the B sucho has not been able to recruit and maintain employees (see also paragraph 3.20.8).
3.20.13.
The extraordinary challenge in the operational area, which is caused by the migration crisis, was not weakened by a solid management structure.
The Board of Directors did not set up an internal audit post at the B
By the end of 2017, the Board of Directors had limited supervision over the budget.
3.20.14.
The B sucho does not have an internal legal service, nor do legal documents systematically become internal 
The B-ro assigns most of the legal issues (mainly personnel and procurement issues) to outside, without having to clearly specify in internal decisions or guidelines who may assign which legal issues externally, to which law firm and under what conditions.
Although the B sucho uses at least eight different law firms, a comprehensive list of all relevant cases, cases and expert opinions is missing.
3.20.15.
Legal services are not adequately provided at B such a time to ensure that they are exclusively used to defend the interests of the B such as the B such and not to defend the interests of individuals.
The relevant procedures for protecting against conflicts of interest are not always effective.
In general, the use of external means reduces the possibility of settling disputes before the action is brought.
3.20.16.
The facts set out in paragraphs 3.20.13-3.20.14 expose the B-ro to the risk of financial losses and reputational losses.
These matters are currently being examined internally by the B.O.O.
Many essential obligations against regulations resulting from the lack of internal controls Payments for auxiliary services 3.20.17.
In 2017, €7.7 million was paid for auxiliary services.
Since no competitive public procurement procedure had taken place, the Court found the order for auxiliary services in Greece to be contrary to the rules of the law in respect of the year 2016.
Nevertheless, the B sucho made payments of EUR 4.8 million in 2017 within the framework of this illegal order.
EN C 434/120 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.20.18.
The procurement procedures for auxiliary services carried out in Malta in 2017 (volume of payments in 2017: EUR 1.0 million) were unsustainable in their execution (e.g. short deadlines for submission of tenders, lack of transparency in extension of deadlines), which affected the competition 
As a result, the procedures had to be repeated several times because no tenders were received.
3.20.19.
The contributions were insufficiently controlled for compliance with the national regulations for temporary employment, which exposed the company to significant financial and reputational risks.
Furthermore, the over-practical nature of working time certificates for auxiliary staff and identified irregularities had considerable weaknesses.
Payments for staff expenditure 3.20.20.
The personnel-related payments amounted to 13.5 million euros in 2017. The Court found serious errors in four of the 14 recruitment procedures.
3.20.21.
For example, the B-ro did not publish a job advertisement to fill the post of senior consultant, but did the recruitment directly on the basis of a reserve list prepared for the post of head of department.
The extension of the deadline was not always justified given the number of applications received by the original deadline.
3.20.22.
Some procedures for hiring AD staff were not suitable for the advertised grade.
In a procedure for filling a management post in the ăVerwaltungstung (Administration) department, the job advertisement was more restrictive than in the same posts in other departments.
In another procedure, the examination of the suitability of the applicants was not adequately documented by the B.O.R.
Payments for rents and related works 3.20.23.
The total rent for all B suchs at the different locations amounted to two million euros in 2017.
The Court noted that the B sucho had signed the rental contracts for the expansion of the headquarters in Malta and several new B suchos in Athens, Lesbos and Chios without having previously adequately analysed the local market.
3.20.24.
In June 2017, the B sucho signed a lease on B suchofl such as the one in Lesbos.
It also accepted a contract with the landlord 
The value of the contract (0.7 million euros during the first months of the lease) exceeded the annual value of the lease many times.
The investment of significant investments in rented buildings is accompanied by serious financial and operational risks.
3.20.25.
In 2018, the B sucho decided to contract a lease on B suchofling in Chios and related construction services.
It is currently limiting the financial exposure of the risk resulting from the suspension.
Travel expenses 3.20.26.
The Court found at its examination in 2016 an order for travel services worth 4 million euros for contrary to the rules.
The contract was awarded to a bidder who did not meet all the selection criteria.
The B sucho continued to make payments of 1.5 million in 2017 on the basis of this illegal order.
3.20.27.
In 2017, the B sucho identified significant errors in the recognition of travel services, in particular the lack of evidence to demonstrate that the travel services concerned were actually requested or provided.
This matter is currently being examined internally by the B.O.O.
Other payments 3.20.28.
Other services, such as cleaning services, security services, interpreting and consulting services, which were based on public procurement procedures, were also systematically affected by the same rules.
The Court established significant rules for the determination of needs for the B-ro, the preparation of specifications, the choice of type of contract, the award procedures applied, the deadlines for submission of tenders, the evaluation and award procedures (i.e. the weighting of price criteria against quality criteria), the changes and extensions of contracts, the execution of contracts and the supervision of the services provided.
These rules have an impact on the basis of competition, transparency, equal treatment and non-discrimination of bidders.
The following digits contain some examples for the above mentioned angels.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/121 3.20.29.
In 2017, the B sucho awarded a service contract 
The contract was awarded to a pre-elected economic operator without any of the procurement procedures provided for in the Financial Regulation.
The procurement procedure and all related payments (992000 euros) were therefore unlawful.
3.20.30.
The B-ro has changed the original contract of 5000 euros concluded in 2016 with a law firm several times since then and increased it to 259000 euros in 2018.
The contract was paid in H-He in 2017 of a total of EUR 98332, partly for consultancy services that required a competitive public procurement procedure.
The changes and payments concerning these advisory services were therefore contrary to the rules.
3.20.31.
The execution of the 2013 contract (value: 120 000 euros, 2017 raised to 132 000 euros) about the organization of four to six large events in an international hotel for a period of four years was not in line with the original subject of the contract.
The B sucho used the contract instead for 50 smaller events.
The execution of the contract has therefore not been carried out in accordance with the provisions of the law.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY FURTION 3.20.32.
The agreements between the European Union and the Kingdom of Norway, the Swiss Confederation and the Förstentum Liechtenstein (also referred to as associated countries) concerning their participation in the B sucho, are fully integrated into the work of the B sucho and are entitled to the support measures of the B sucho.
In 2016, the B-ro received financial assistance from the Commission to ensure adequate capacity building in Greece, support the implementation of the declaration of the European Union and Turkey and significantly accelerate redistribution in order to reduce the current high burden for Greece.
All these activities are part of the core business of the B such as the support of measures of common interest.
The B sucho used the financial assistance for payments (EUR 6.4 million in 2016 and EUR 1.7 million in 2017) of commitments made in connection with these activities.
It did not include these interests in the calculation of the contributions of the associated countries.
If these contributions were included, the associated countries would have to pay EUR 0.5 million more.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.20.33. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
C 434/122 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Year 2013 2013 2014 2014 2014 Progress of the correction (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.) In progress (1) n.e.z. (2) In progress Outgoing In progress ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Court observations 446 of all payments (18%) were made in accordance with the deadlines set in the financial regulation.
The Executive Director's decision to place participants in meetings organised by the B
The number of participants classified as recipients of refunds of the category ăA
Two of the three tenderers participating in a negotiated procurement procedure for the provision of travel services on the basis of a framework service contract worth EUR 4 million for the period 2016-2020 were invited to provide additional information on the same selection criteria.
The framework agreement and the 2016 payments based on it in H
2016 In 2017 due (3)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/123 Court observations The B sucho awarded a framework contract with a duration of two months worth 3.6 million euros in support of the migration crisis in February 2016.
The framework contract was awarded to a pre-elected economic operator without any of the procurement procedures provided for in the EU Financial Regulation. Therefore, the award is not in line with the relevant EU rules and the 2016 payments based on this are not in compliance with the requirements of EUR 592 273.
In August 2016, the B sucho launched an open procedure (f) to award a framework contract to meet its needs for cultural mediators/interpreters in various countries.
The total value of the framework contract for the four lots awarded and awarded (Lose 2-5) was 60 million euros over four years.
However, this contractor fulfilled the financial requirements of the selection criteria (annual turnover in amount of 1 million euros) only for two of the three previous years; for the other year an undertaking was concluded with a joint organization, according to which it places its turnover to the contractor for the execution (equity loan).
The extraordinary meeting of the European Council of 23 April 2015 and the ten-point plan on migration adopted by the Foreign and Home Affairs Ministers on 20 April 2015 called on Member States to ensure the collection of fingerprints for all migrants.
This required the purchase and subsequent donation to the Greek State of 90 fingerprint scanners and 90 compatible computers (equipment) 
However, there were no local staff to meet this demand. 
Year 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
C 434/124 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court's comments Public contracting authorities must require written explanation of the essential elements of prices or costs when they appear to be unusually low and must give the tenderer the opportunity to comment (5).
In its October 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) highlighted the lack of adequate planning of procurement procedures in relation to administrative expenditure and the weaknesses in both the monitoring of procedures and the individual responses to framework contracts.
In 2016, the B-ro faced various challenges in its operational environment, including not only the significant increase in its budget and the expansion of its tasks, but also the significant increase in the number of targets, the replacement of the accountant's post with several interim measures and the introduction of a paperless workflow system.
This considerably changed and unstable situation was not cushioned by the revalidation of the accounting system or by the introduction of a system for regular ex-post checks on accounts.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with a contractor, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the B-ros) on the acquisition of software licenses and maintenance and support services.
In 2016, a total of 534 900 euros were paid to the contractor of the framework contract.
The Commission commissioned the B such a project to be carried out by external evaluation of the performance of the project during the period 2011-2014, for which the final report was presented in December 2015.
The B sucho is currently implementing an action plan, which it has agreed to with the Board of Directors in view of its extended mandate. The final implementation report was scheduled for June 2017.
Year 2016 2016 2016 Progress of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.a.) n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. (6) Completion (7) 2016 In progress (8) 2016 n.a. n.a.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/125 EN Court observations The B sucho purchased and built 65 containers with a total value of 852136 euros, which are to be used as mobile B suchs in the Greek and Italian hotspots.
VAT refunds for 2014 (180919 Euro) and 2015 (245 960 Euro) were still outstanding at the end of 2016.
At EUR 2.5 million and 43.9% respectively, the rate of committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) was high (compared to 2015: EUR 1 076 583 and 36.9%).
The funds are mainly related to IT infrastructure, services in the areas of translation and publication, management consulting and costs for board meetings, which were closed at the end of 2016 and/or only 2017 invoices issued. Year 2016 2016 2016 Status of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.) n.e. (9) In progress (10) n.e.c.
(2) The standards for internal control have been converted by the Commission into the internal control framework.
(3) The new contract on the provision of services of the travel agency was signed in March 2018.
(4) The new contract for the provision of auxiliary services for EASO in Greece was signed in March 2018.
(5) Article 151 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012  
(6) In September 2017, the B
(7) The accounting system was validated in May 2018.
Private business companies are commissioned to carry out ex-post inspections of projects.
(8) The B sucho plans to introduce systematic controls for all offers of 135 000 euros from 1 January 2018.
So far, none of the proposals were above this threshold.
(9) The insurance companies have not submitted the tenders requested by the B
(10) The B sucho applied to the Maltese tax authorities for reimbursement of VAT for all declarations until 31 December 2017.
In 2017, VAT was recovered for the total amount of EUR 203277 (2014 and third quarter 2016).
DE C 434/126 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE B such a report thanks the Court for the helpful report.
At the same time, the Court is grateful for its appreciation of the difficult situation in which the B-ro found itself during the period under review due to the enormous expansion of its tasks: it was also charged with supporting Member States and participating in the implementation of initiatives at EU level, including redistribution and declaration of EU-Turkey, budget increase, exponential increase in payments and increase in procurement procedures (both in terms of number and complexity).
In addition, the B sucho has to manage a large number of sites and many management positions (department heads, department heads, sector heads) are not filled.
In his reply, the Bureau will refer to some of the Court's observations, but in general it accepts the report and the findings it contains.
3.20.6. and 3.20.13.
With regard to systematic understandings against the regulations in the B-ro, the B-ro, under the new direction, has begun to initiate the necessary steps to ensure that compliance with the regulations is given priority and becomes the central element of culture and in the implementation of all its measures.
This includes objective, honest and open internal control, self-assessment.
The B-ro accepts the Court's finding that the monitoring structures and internal control structures responsible by the B-ro have not received the attention in the past that is necessary to ensure adequate legal and regulatory capacity.
The B-ro would like to note that the structure and procedures of the system will have absolute priority for the systematic achievement of justice and order (and the corresponding pr-enzise and comprehensive reporting) under the new leadership.
3.20.6., 3.20.8. and 3.20.12.
The Court rightly underlines the fact that the staff situation in the B such a situation has deteriorated and is insufficient and that it is also an obstacle to the proper functioning of the internal control system.
The current personnel situation is one of the major challenges in the context of the resolution of the angels identified by the Court in its observations, which can be seen to a large extent as a result of the lack of resources for structured and regular work.
The B-ro is directly addressing this problem and is urgently conducting recruitment procedures to fill management posts and other important (operational and administrative) posts on the basis of a sound recruitment plan that has preceded a need assessment.
The B-ro also makes efforts in the area of employee satisfaction to solve the problem of staff turnover. Although it is important to take into account that the low correction coefficient plays an important role in this respect compared to the relatively high cost of living in Malta, the B-ro acknowledges that more efforts must be made to improve employee satisfaction.
Some measures such as flexible work opportunities, improved internal communication and organisation of employee events have already been introduced.
3.20.9. and 3.20.19.
The Court gives a correct description of the difficulties and the rapid increase in financial transactions and procurement procedures, expressed in absolute figures.
These figures speak a clear language, but basically reflect the balances in finance and not ad-quat when it comes to awarding them.
These figures do not take into account other facts and measures which add to the compulsory situation in the procurement sector, such as the following two aspects: - the involvement of externally funded experts (Articles 204 and 287 of the Financial Regulations), which is a high workload for the procurement sector.
In the coming years, further deterioration is expected, as the B sucho [medical] expert must be involved in supporting tasks related to medical information about origin countries.

In the Italian and Greek regions, conditions for a competitive market for the provision of services and products are not very good for the B sucho.
In addition, the B-ro is not typical for Malta's economic operators as customers, as they are usually lacking the capacity to meet the requirements of the B-ros, which are more extensive.
3.20.10.-3.20.12. and 3.20.19.
This feature is essential for the understanding of the verhtnism, which is a great effort for the administrative support and the, which is very complex environment when it comes to implementing functioning internal control structures.
It should also be noted that the B sucho is dependent on contractors on its operational capacity, its geographically widely spread area of operation and (as the Court rightly points out) the limitations of the use of Member State experts to an unusually large extent.
This is a factor which has the effect of multiplying the tasks associated with the award and financial sector (including decentralised financial actors), since the places of deployment in Greece, Italy and Cyprus are:
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/127 and for hotspots in Greece and Italy, specific criteria are required (leasing vertr such as the provision of auxiliary and interpreting services).
In this case too, staff are of crucial importance, and the B-ro pr-ft is currently (in recognition of the multiplication factor due to its capacity as agency with several locations) the ability to allocate the necessary resources to ensure overall accuracy and quality in the award and financial cycles, as well as legal and regulatory capacity and to have a decentralisation process carried out by a consulting firm.
3.20.14, 3.20.15 and 3.20.16.
The B-ro recognizes the need to have internal legal expertise, and accepts this need.
In addition, the B-ro agrees unreservedly with the finding that legal services must always strictly represent the interests of the B-ro and not the interests of individuals (which does not exclude each other).
The B
As the Court notes in its report, internal investigations on this matter will continue and the results will be communicated to the Court.
3.20.17. and 3.20.26.
The B sucho accepts the comments.
These remedies were immediately initiated after the Court had established the irregularities in its 2016 audit report (initiation of the Court's report in September 2017).
Unfortunately, however, in 2017 due to the deadlines and the fact that the B'ro replaced the contracts as soon as possible after the determination of their illegality, it actually came to payments from the contract.
3.20.18 and 3.20.19.
The B-ro accepts the comments and reiterates that these problems can be seen as a result of the lack of resources and the lack of internal control and management that the Court calls all in its report.
3.20.23.-3.20.25.
As the Court notes in its report, an internal investigation is currently taking place into this matter.
3.20.29.-3.20.31.
3.20.32.
The last paragraph of the report (43) is in some doubt by the B-ro, as it carried out its activities in 2016 in accordance with the agreements with DG BUDG.
The B-ro has consulted DG BUDG on this matter to clarify this matter again and will take immediate action if DG BUDG should change its previously communicated position.
EN C 434/128 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.21.
EUROPEAN CENTRE FOR PREVENTION AND CONTROL OF DISEASES (ECDC) INTRODUCTION 3.21.1.
The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (hereinafter referred to as the Centre), also located in Stockholm, was established by Regulation (EC) No 851/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council (167).
It also aims to coordinate the European-wide networking of bodies active in this area.
3.21.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Centre (168).
Table Main figures for the 2017 Centre Budget (million euro) 58 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 279 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROVISION OF THE COURT OF FIRST INSTITUTIONS OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENT FINAL PRESENTATION IN 2016 58 260 PRESENTATION JUDGMENT 3.21.3.
We have a) audited the Centre's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(169) and the budget implementation reports (170) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The financial statements of the Centre for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the financial and financial situation of the Centre as at 31 December 2017, the results of its financial statements and cash flows and the changes in the net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 142, 30.4.2004, p. 1.
(168) Further information on the Centre's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.ecdc.europa.eu.
(169) The annual accounts include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(170) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/129 Legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.21.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.21.6.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.21.7. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
C 434/130 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Year 2015 2016 2016 State of adoption of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.z.) Completed (1) Completed (2) ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Court observations The Court noted various sources of transparency concerning the proposed procurement procedures, such as the absence of a clear link with the Centre's annual work programme, insufficient support for the estimated contract value or the absence of a financial benchmark for assessing the tenderer's financial capacity.
In May 2015, the Centre's Interim Director was appointed by a decision of the Administrative Board.
As of 31 December 2016, this staffing exceeded the maximum period of one year by eight months provided for in the Staff Regulations.
This also led to 15 other transitional arrangements for other staff.
In its October 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed that, despite the Centre's ongoing efforts to strengthen its internal procurement controls, there are still significant obstacles to procurement.
The IAS concluded that the planning and monitoring of procurement procedures are weak and that procurement procedures are not always covered by the annual work programme or financing decision.
Furthermore, reference is made to the Court's report on the Centre's 2015 annual accounts and the findings of the Court's reports which affect the transparency of the procurement procedures.
The Centre and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
As in previous years, the rate of committed appropriations for Title III (operational expenditure) was high at 7.9 million euros and 41% (2015: 7.5 million euros and 42%).
The funding was primarily linked to several annual projects in the fields of scientific advice (2.4 million euros), monitoring (1.3 million euros), public health training (1.4 million euros) and IT applications for public health (2.1 million euros).
The Centre may use separate budget resources to better accommodate the multi-annual nature of the activities and inevitable delays between contract signing, deliveries and payments.
(1) (2) Following a selection procedure, the Interim Director was appointed Director in 2017.
The Centre has introduced new IT tools to improve planning and monitoring of procurement procedures.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/131 RESPONSIBLE OF THE CENTRUMS The Centre takes note of the Court of Auditors' report.
EN C 434/132 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.22.
EUROPEAN REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOD SAFETY (EFSA) INTRODUCTION 3.22.1.
The European Food Safety Authority (hereinafter referred to as the Beh-erde, also known as the ‘EFSA') was established in Parma by Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council(171).
3.22.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the item (172).
Table Main figures for the 2017 budget (million euro) (1) 81 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 443 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
(2) Staff shall comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the authority.
We have a) the annual accounts of the accounts of the financial statements(173) and the reports on budget implementation (174) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts pursuant to Article 287 of the Treaty, on the functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
OJ L 31, 1.2.2002, p. 1.
(172) Further information on the conditions and activities of the authorities can be found on their website www.efsa.europa.eu.
(173) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(174) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/133 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.22.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.22.6.
3.22.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF ACCOUNTS 3.22.8.
The head of the accountant of the department is the head of the department Administration/Corporate Services.
In May 2017, the Authority concluded three framework agreements in the cascade system on behalf of nine agencies participating in the open call for proposals, covering a wide range of services.
Although agency-wide procurement procedures offer a good opportunity to increase administrative efficiency, in the case of procurement procedures where the specific services to be provided are not known at the time of the call for tenders, framework agreements, in which each individual contract is called upon to compete again, are better suited to achieving a good cost-benefit relationship than framework agreements in the cascade system.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.22.10.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a 2017 review report on the procedure for evaluating regulated products/the assessment phase for the approval of contraceptive substances (175).
The report is currently drawing up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.22.11.
The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years. (175) The Court did not carry out these audit work.
C 434/134 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years of the Court The Court has not yet adopted a clear and comprehensive ex post financial control strategy covering all areas of activity and which is defined in terms of frequency and scope of these controls.
In its November 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the existing controls for IT project management are appropriate, but pointed to significant shortcomings in IT governance.
EFSA and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures. 2015 2016 Progress of corrective measures (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.)
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/135 REPLY OF THE REPLY 3.22.4.
EFSA welcomes the Court's unrestricted judgments on the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the accounts.
3.22.8.
In order to ensure the independence of the accountant, the formal requirement set out in the EFSA financial regulations is implemented in the following cases: The current account holder was appointed by the EFSA Board of Directors in 2008.
The accountant is under the responsibility of the Head of the BuS Department. To ensure the functional independence of the accountant in the procedures for performance assessment, the Head of the BuS Department acts as assessor and the Chairman of the Audit Committee as a counter-signing staff member.
The accounting officer may be removed from office at any time by the Management Board, either temporarily or definitively.
3.22.9.
There is no obligation to use the individual invitations to tender for the individual tenders and both models may be suitable according to the relevant scenario.
EFSA believes that once again calls for standard services for competition are more appropriate and used in EFSA's statistical services, systematic literature review and target group research.
EFSA uses the cascade model in the fall when a long-term contract relationship is in the foreground.
In particular, in the case of the framework agreement for external inspection services, the main objective is to (i) ensure an appropriate understanding of EFSA's activities, (ii) a coherent procedure for testing and (iii) credibility at all levels of administration.
EFSA has control over the budget for proposals made by the contractor in the cascade system.
3.22.10.
EFSA will implement the Action Plan for the Evaluation of Regulated Products/Assessment Phase in the Authorisation of Sharrow Control following IAD.
EN C 434/136 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.23.
EUROPEAN INSTITUTE FOR EQUALITY INTRODUCTION 3.23.1.
The European Institute for Gender Equality (hereinafter called the Institute), based in Vilnius, was established by Regulation (EC) No 1922/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council (176).
3.23.2.
The table contains the main figures for the institution (177).
Table Main figures for the Institute 2017 Budget (million euro) 8 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 45 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROTECTION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the financial statements of the Institute, consisting of the annual accounts (178) and the financial implementation reports (179) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the financial statements in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The annual accounts of the Institute for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the financial and financial situation of the Institute as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects. (176) OJ L 331, 31.12.2017.
(177) Further information on the Institute's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.eige.europa.eu.
(178) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(179) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/137 Legal jurisdiction and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.23.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.23.6.
3.23.7.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment. COMMENTS ON THE RIGHT AND ORDER OF THE PROJECT 3.23.8.
The Institute was the defendant in four disputes brought before the Court by rejected bidders in connection with three procurement procedures at the end of the financial year 2017.
In each of these cases, the applicant requested annulment of the award decision and the award of damages.
The claim for compensation in these four cases amounts to EUR 700 000 or 9% of the annual budget of the Institute.
According to the evaluation of the Institute's external attorney, a restitution of EUR 75 000 (or 1% of the Institute's annual budget) was booked to cover the expected losses.
The judgment of the Court of First Instance in each of these cases will determine the legality and order of the award procedures for these contracts and future payments.
In 2016, the Institute launched an open call for travel services.
The performance descriptions and the evaluation process did not provide sufficient guarantee for the best price-performance ratio.
The formula and the pricing mechanism were not appropriate as they did not enable a reasonable evaluation of tenders submitted by the tenderers.
The framework agreement was concluded over a maximum duration of four years and a maximum amount of 700 000 euros.
In 2017, payments in H:U: 137 000 euros.
3.23.10.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (180) (181). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
According to the Commission, the Institute had introduced electronic invoicing for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not the electronic tendering and submission of tenders.
3.23.11.
The Institute publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity and enable the citizens to view job advertisements from the various European institutions and agencies.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.23.12.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a review report on the management of relations with stakeholders and external communication" (182) by the EIGE.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 32.3.13. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(180) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(181) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(182) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
C 434/138 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 2016 Completed DE ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Court observations At EUR 1.7 million or 51% (2015: EUR 2.2 million or 60%), the rate of committed appropriations for Title III (operational expenditure) for the following financial year remained high, mainly due to year-long studies on the implementation of the budget.
The Institute may use separate budget resources to better accommodate the multi-annual nature of the activities and inevitable delays between contract signatures, deliveries and payments.
In 2016, the Institute launched an open call for a framework contract on the maintenance and updating of its instruments and sources for gender statistics with a maximum amount of 1.6 million euros.
At the request of a bidder, the institution made it clear on its website that the maximum amount per lot was EUR 800 000.
However, two separate framework contracts with the same tenderer were concluded over a maximum amount of 1.6 million euros per lot, with the option of further increasing the rates by up to 50% per lot, which allows the institution to conclude individual contracts of up to 4.8 million euros or three times the amount specified in the contract notice during the entire duration of the framework contract (up to four years).
In 2016, payments in H: 87 920 euros were made.
In response to the survey, the Institute signed the two framework agreements, each reducing the maximum number of jobs to EUR 800000 (with a potential increase of up to 50 %).
In the invitation to tender under a negotiated procedure with a single tenderer for the procurement of services for the maintenance and support of IT tools and databases, the maximum price for all three services described was limited to EUR 81 000 (excluding VAT) and it was stipulated that more offers would not be taken into account.
However, after receiving offers for two of the three services requested, the Institute concluded a service contract with a price of 97 410 euros.
Payments in 2016 of 73 057 euros were made. 2016 level of correction (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.)
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/139 EN Court observations In January 2016, the Institute published its external evaluation.
Year 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.)
DE C 434/140 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE INSTITUTE 3.23.8.
The EIGE took note of the comment.
The EIGE has examined the weaknesses and will adapt the tendering procedures, regardless of the court's rulings in these cases, to minimise the risk of future litigation and potential dissatisfaction among rejected candidates.
3.23.9.
The EIGE takes note of the remark and stresses that internal controls are available to verify and control the pricing of flight and hotel offers submitted by the contractor.
The EIGE will address this issue in the EU Agency Network with the aim of exchanging examples of best practice.
In addition, the EIGE expressed interest in participating in a joint tendering procedure organised by the Commission's (PMO) services.
Following the award of this contract, the EIGE intends not to extend its existing framework agreement on the provision of travel, accommodation and services.
The comprehensive installation of these modules at the EIGE is expected in the third and fourth quarters of 2018.
Given the limited number of procedures and the high costs associated with services, the EIGE has decided not to pursue this option in accordance with the principles of economy and independence.
Taking into account the costs of providing job titles in all 24 EU official languages and the fact that some vacancies are recommended by the notice of other vacancies, due to their specificity, the EIGE considers that the vacancies currently used for the publication of its vacancies provide appropriate transparency and publicity.
3.23.12.
In line with the recommendations made in the report, the EIGE has developed an action plan which is regularly updated and updated.
The agreed deadline for the implementation of all measures expires on 31 December 2018, and the implementation is already well advanced.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/141 3.24.
EUROPEAN MEDICINAL PRODUCT AGENCY (EMA) INTRODUCTION 3.24.1.
The European Medicines Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also called the ‘EMA', was established in London by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93, replaced by Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council(183).
3.24.2.
Table Main figures for the Agency Budget (million euro) Total staff on 31 December (2) 2017 331 (1) 766 2016 305 768 (1) Determined budget. The final budget is based on the revenue generated from fees and charges in 2017.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, comprising the annual accounts (185) and the financial implementation reports (186) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.24.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
(183) OJ No.
(184) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.ema.europa.eu.
(185) The annual accounts include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(186) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/142 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.24.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.24.6.
Emphasis on a matter 3.24.7.
The London-based agency has prepared its preliminary annual accounts and the accompanying explanations on the basis of the information available at the time of signature (June 1, 2018).
3.24.8.
On 20 November 2017, the General Affairs Council of the European Union agreed to move the Agency's headquarters to Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
The move to provisional circumstances is planned for early 2019, and the agency has used the associated costs of 18.6 million euros in its annual accounts for the expenses incurred.
3.24.9.
Furthermore, the rental contract provides for the current red tape of the agency in London a rental period up to 2039 
The remaining rental costs of EUR 489 million are shown in the annual accounts. Of this amount, a maximum amount of EUR 465 million, representing the remaining rental period after the Agency's planned move to Amsterdam, is shown as contingent liability.
3.24.10.
COMMENTS ON THE EXISTENCE OF THE CURRENCY 3.24.11.
The Agency is the head of the Financial Department of the Auditor.
3.24.12
The Agency has also been fundamentally restructured twice since 2014 and has also been entrusted with new and extensive tasks (see points 32.4.15-3.24.17). Although these events have resulted in changes in the Agency's procedures and accounting system, the accounting system has not been revalidated since 2013. COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY AFFAIRS AND SERVICES 3.24.13.
The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity and enable the citizens to view job advertisements from the various EU agencies and institutions.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/143 32.4.14.
In accordance with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (187) (188). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT comprehensive which covers all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
The Agency had introduced the electronic tender for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not the electronic invoicing and submission of tenders.
Management of advisory services 3.24.15.
In the previous year, the Agency was given advice. 
Since the number of posts in the Agency's establishment plan was not increased, which would enable it to build up the necessary expertise internally, the Agency drew on consulting firms for the completion of these tasks.
However, the use of consulting firms has led the agency to be dependent on this external expertise in critical terms.
3.24.16.
To get the projects back under control, the agency decided which functions should not be assigned externally, but should be perceived internally.
The agency also goes on to award consultant contracts no longer according to the criteria of time and resources, but on a fixed price basis.
It also established a more appropriate procedure for approving project changes.
3.24.17.
It will take time to reduce the critical nature of the agency of consultancy firms and the impact of the measures taken will only be apparent with the years.
One of the two large projects, the Pharmacovigilance Project (EudraVigilance database 
The clinical trials project is still under way. A time for commissioning has not been set, but the budget was raised by another 4.9 million euros in 2017 (191).
Initial scheduled date of commissioning Planned date of commissioning 31 December 2016 Actual/planned date of commissioning 31 December 2017 Original budget (Euro) Budget on 31 December 2016 (Euro) 3rd quarter 2015 4th quarter 2017 4th quarter 2017 3.7 million 14.3 million 1st quarter 2017 3rd quarter 2018 not specified 6.1 million 24.3 million EudraVigilance database  
The Commission's Internal Audit Service carried out a review in 2017, as the Agency implements the pharmacovigilance fee regulation(192)(193). The Agency prepared an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is potential need for improvement.
(187) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(188) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
OJ L 316, 14.11.2012, p. 38.
OJ L 158, 27.5.2014, p. 1.
(191) In 2018, this project was merged with a new project (SUSAR 
(192) Regulation (EU) No 658/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2014, p.
(193) The Court has not carried out this examination. EN C 434/144 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 CONTINUE CONFIDENCE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.24.19.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/145 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Court observations The Agency's Regulation on the Agency's fees sets deadlines for the collection of applications and the related payments of the Agency to the competent national authorities(1). In most cases, the Court's decisions did not meet these deadlines.
In 2014, the Agency conducted an administrative procedure against its IT staff.
Since the introduction of a new IT accounting system in 2011, reporting on the work done in relation to the obligations and on the execution is not sufficiently transparent.
The agency concluded agreements with 25 hotels in London on business tariffs for the accommodation of experts without carrying out a competitive procurement procedure.
The six agreements on commercial tariffs and the 2016 payments based on them in H-h-h-h-h-e of approximately 2.1 million euros are therefore contrary to the rules.
In 2014, the Commission concluded a framework agreement with a contractor on the acquisition of software and licenses, as well as related IT maintenance and advisory services, on behalf of more than 50 EU institutions and bodies (including the Agency).
In 2016, a total of 8.9 million euros were paid to the contractor of the framework contract.
The Agency did not systematically compare the calculated prices and quotations with the offers of the suppliers and did not systematically control the invoices issued to the contractor of the framework contract.
C 434/146 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court observations Since 2014, the Agency has been fundamentally restructured twice, with high and medium-sized management positions being reassigned internally.
The reassignment of key IT and administration staff was not successful, which exposed the agency and its activities to a significant risk of instabilization.
Furthermore, there is no system for analysing the available skills, identifying gaps and recruiting and assigning suitable employees.
Year 2016 Status of the correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.z.)Completed 2016 Consulting services In addition to the annual work carried out for all agencies, the Court analysed how the Agency used advisory services in two major projects.
The Parliament and the Council have entrusted the Agency with the implementation of the Regulation on Pharmacovigilance (Regulation (EU) No 1027/2012) and the Regulation on Clinical Trials (Regulation (EU) No 536/2014), which requires the development of complex EU-wide networks.
These tasks were transferred to the Agency at a time when it was expected to reduce its staff in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline of 2 December 2013.
The number of posts in the Agency's establishment plan was not increased, which would enable it to acquire the necessary expertise in business and IT development.
Extensive use of external consultants As the agency only had 13 employees in its IT delivery department, it used the services of consulting companies in the areas of business analysis, information technology, project management and quality assurance.
In the second quarter of 2016, 131 consultants were on site for the agency and 60 other consultants were on site for their work.
The agency has therefore been dependent on external expertise since the start of the projects in critical form, but does not have a strategy that regulates the use of consultants.
Insufficient control over project development and implementation When the agency was transferred to the new tasks in 2012 and 2014, it did not have an appropriate method for managing projects in this framework.
In 2014, a new method was introduced, which had to be considerably pr-sed in September 2016.
In progress (see paragraphs [3.24.15-3.24.17])
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/147 EN Court observations In several cases, the proposed measures or approach were different from those envisaged before this was approved by formal amendments.
All external consultants closed contracts on the basis of time and resources until mid-2016, although the project performance was clearly defined.
Distortions and cost increases In the development of the systems, the agency was confronted with delays and cost increases.
The numerous changes in project size, budget and timeframes were mainly due to repeated adjustments to the system requirements which met the changing needs of Member States(2).
The following table lists two large projects as examples. Originally planned date of commissioning Currently planned date of commissioning Original budget (Euro) budget on 31 October 2016 (Euro) EudraVigilance data bank 
Through such a long period of time, it is not possible for interested parties to receive a timely feedback on performance.
Year of adoption of the correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) 2016 In progress (1) Regulation on the Agency's fees, Articles 10(1) and 11(1).
(2) Telematics management bodies representing the Member States to develop and approve the requirements for future IT systems.
EN C 434/148 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.24.8.
3.24.11.
The Agency is in line with the financial regulations of the EMA: The accounting officer is already appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with Article 50(1) of the EMA Financial Regulations, and the Board of Directors has also adopted an exhaustive charter of the tasks and responsibilities of the accounting officer.
The declaration of completeness signed by the auditor and the administrative director further reinforces this independence.
In March 2018, the validation of the Agency's accounting systems was started.
3.24.13.
The EMA offers the n-thic dimension of transparency and publicity, as it publishes or has access to the EMA website, LinkedIn, agency-wide job pages or in specialist publications depending on its profile.
As a result, the EMA attracts great interest among applicants across the EU, with over 1 000 candidates participating in some competitions.
In addition, the general implementing rules concerning the recruitment and use of temporary staff state that the selection notices for temporary staff referred to in Article 2(f) of the SMO are published only in the working languages of the agencies; however, agencies which do not have a fixed working language publish the selection notices in all the official languages of the European Union.
The EMA has been English since June 2015 because of a decision by the Administrative Director, which was approved by the Board of Directors.
However, the EPSO has informed the EMA that it continues to require publication on its website that the EMA translates the job advertisements into all EU official languages and makes these language versions available on the EMA website.
It should be noted that the call for tenders for posts in all official EU languages has a clear impact on the duration of the selection process and is associated with higher costs.
32.4.14.
By the end of 2017, the agency had launched the electronic tender for all procedures above the specified limit and for all procedures below the specified limit the e-mail alert.
Although the Agency did not initiate electronic invoicing or submission of tenders, in September 2017, the Agency signed an agreement with the European Commission on access to and use of electronic submission of offers and is waiting for the European Commission to appoint a deadline.
The Agency welcomes the Court's recognition that the EMA has implemented several important measures to respond to the Court's comments from the 2016 audit regarding the management of advisory services.
The two projects are being investigated, which is due to the complexity of the co-system of the interested parties and the desired system of clinical trials.
This amendment was submitted and approved under the portfolio regulation. The project status was reviewed in detail with the board of directors of the EMA.
3.24.18.
The Agency took note of the comment.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/149 3.25.
EUROPEAN OBSERVATION CENTRE FOR DRUGS AND DRUGS INTRODUCTION 3.25.1.
The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (hereinafter the Centre), based in Lisbon, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 302/93 (194).
The main task of the Centre is to collect, analyse and disseminate information on the drug and drug addiction problem with the aim of compiling and publishing objective, reliable and comparable information at European level.
3.25.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Observatory (195).
Table Main figures for the 2017 Observatory Budget (million euro) (1) 16 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 111 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Centre.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROPOSAL FOR A RELIABILITY OF THE COURT -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
We have a) audited the Centre's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(196) and the budget implementation reports (197) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Centre's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Centre's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
(194) OJ No.
(195) Further information on the Centre's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.emcdda.europa.eu.
(196) The annual accounts include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(197) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure estimates, as well as explanations.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.25.6.
3.25.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.25.8.
The Centre is the head of the Administration/Corporate Services department and the head of the auditor's office.
3.25.10.
In accordance with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (198) (199). As a corresponding requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT comprehensive which covers all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.25.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the Centre's handling of data collection, validation and quality assurance (200).
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.25.12.
(198) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(199) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(200) The farm did not carry out these inspection work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/151 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations In 2012, the Centre signed a framework contract with a maximum amount of EUR 250 000 to sign individual entries.
At the end of 2015, the total amount of payments under this contract amounted to EUR 382 181, i.e. the ceiling was exceeded by 50%.
Two framework contracts with a maximum value of EUR 135 000 and EUR 650 000 respectively were signed by a staff member of the Centre in setting up the evaluation committee, decisions on the decisions on the decisions on the decisions and signing the contracts as authorised authorising officers.
However, the delegation of power granted by the authorising officer was limited to 130000 euros and the framework contracts were not expressly extended.
In 2016, payments in H: 35 310 euros were made.
In its January 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) stressed the need for the Observatory to improve the management of IT projects.
In particular, IAS concluded that a long-term strategic overall vision for the IT systems supporting the Centre's central operational tasks was lacking, that the Centre's IT project management methodology was only partially adapted to its needs and that the system management process was not possible.
The Observatory and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures.
EN C 434/152 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE OBSERVATION CENTRE 3.25.8. The Centre considers that the current organisational structure did not affect the independence of its accountants.
This independence was ensured in accordance with the relevant rules, in particular by the appointment of the auditors by the Management Board of the Centre, the functional reporting and accountability of these auditors against the Management Board and the careful compliance with the rules on the separation of tasks of the various financial actors of the Centre.
In this context, the Centre is prepared to comply with the Court's recommendation, ensuring that the appropriate measures are in an appropriate position to the size of the organisation and that the effectiveness and efficiency of its operation are maintained.
3.25.9.
The Centre also makes its job advertisements known by the dissemination of information about the members of its governing bodies, the national contact points involved in Reitox and the other EU agencies.
The next selection process of the Observatory will also be published on the agency's cross-cutting job vacancies portal; the EU Agency Network has developed this joint online platform to ensure that agencies' recruitment procedures are publicly implemented.
In this context, the Centre will present the cost-benefit ratio of an additional publication on the EPSO portal.
The Observatory meets the requirements of e-procurement procedures in line with the EU's regulatory framework and the timetable established for the introduction of e-procurement procedures in the EU.
In August 2015, the Centre, in cooperation with the relevant services of the European Commission, set up the technical configuration/ICT tool, which is required for electronic invoicing (and provided by DG DIGIT to the European Commission for the implementation of DG DIGIT's framework contracts).
In addition, the Observatory has planned the preparatory measures necessary to implement the modules of the electronic call for tenders and the electronic submission of tenders according to the provisions of the aforementioned legal framework from October 2018.
The implementation of this plan is underway and the Observatory expects it to meet this deadline without any major problems.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/153 3.26.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF IT GROSS SYSTEMS IN THE AREA OF FREEDOM, SECURITY AND JUSTICE (EU-LISA) INTRODUCTION 3.26.1.
The European Agency for the Management of IT Systems in the Freedom, Security and Justice Area (eu-LISA) (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) with its headquarters in Tallinn and its locations in Stra§burg and St. Johann im Pongau was established by Regulation (EU) No 1077/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (201).
The Agency's central task is to manage the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II), the Visa Information System (VIS) and the European System for the reconciliation of Fingerabdr-k-ken (Eurodac).
3.26.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (202).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 79 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 152 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (203) and the budget implementation reports (204) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.26.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 286, 1.11.2011, p. 1.
(202) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.eulisa.europa.eu.
(203) The annual accounts include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(204) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/154 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.26.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.26.6.
3.26.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.26.8. In 2017, the Agency had difficulties in reaching a sufficient number of tenderers in several medium-value procurement procedures.
3.26.9.
The Agency is currently managing three dedicated, non-integrated IT systems (SIS II, VIS and Eurodac) which all process data on the EU's freedom, security and justice policy area.
This approach could prevent the Agency from achieving economies of scale and synergies between the different systems.
The current changes in the Agency's mandate to manage several additional IT systems in the coming years underpin the increasing urgency of this problem.
The Agency should draw up a detailed cost-benefit analysis in consultation with the Commission and the Member States to contribute to a discussion on the future development strategy for the systems.
3.26.10.
The project for the construction of a new building at the Stra§burg site was considerably reduced.
Although the Agency had already paid the full price for the construction work in 2016, these were still not completed at the end of 2017 and the progress reports on the work that was done covered only around 70% of the work.
Some of the agency's staff have already moved in, although the work was still ongoing.
The agency and the contractor blame each other for the delays. In December 2017, the contractor made financial demands on the agency and filed a complaint.
The agency pr
3.26.11.
3.26.12.
In accordance with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a uniform framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (206) (207). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT comprehensive package covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
Advice 3.26.13.
The Agency uses consulting services mainly in connection with IT projects due to the nature of its activity.
According to the Agency's records, IT projects were implemented in 2017 within the financial and timeframe.
For the few developmental maintenance projects that complain somewhat behind the schedule, exceptional reports were written.
(205) See also the Agency's 2017 annual accounts, Section 2.1.5 ăEvents after the closing date. (206) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government).
(207) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/155 3.26.14.
The Agency uses a outsourcing model for the development and implementation of IT projects, which implements around 90% of the corresponding work by contractors.
There are three main framework agreements with three consortia, one for each system.
Payments made to these framework agreements in 2017 amounted to EUR 3 million for Eurodac, EUR 16 million for SIS II and EUR 13 million for VIS.
Although all phases of IT projects, from the definition of requirements and milestones to the commissioning of new system components, are owned and controlled by the Agency, a model in which the development capabilities for such sensitive IT systems are outsourced to this extent carries considerable risks with regard to aberm§igen Abhängigkeit by the contractors.
This is all the more true given the limited number of potential contractors from operational and security-related areas that can handle systems of these areas and these requirements.
3.26.15.
At the same time, the low number of staff in operational key meetings, especially in the ăReferat for Application Management and Maintenance (AMM), carries a significant risk for the continuity of the operation.
In the second half of 2017, the head of the AMM unit held the post of head of the operational department and the post of head of the administrative department for operation and infrastructure, thus uniting the three highest management positions in the operational department, which entails further risks for the continuity.
3.26.16.
The framework agreements concluded with the consortia concerned for the operation of the main IT systems include not only normal maintenance but also development maintenance work, the price of which cannot be calculated on the basis of the cost estimates attached to the framework agreements.
The prices for the individual units are calculated by the Agency using a combination of fixed price and estimates of the time and resources required, which is aimed at a sound cost control.
For the VIS contract, the agency also relied on the IFPUG (208) method, a standard method based on the function point analysis for determining the prices of developmental abilities.
The agency could also use the IFPUG method for other systems in development.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY FURTION 3.26.17.
The Agency made global commitments of EUR 69.9 million to cover future expenditure on new tasks and IT systems that were originally to be transferred to it in 2017, but for which the legal basis had not yet been adopted by the end of the year (Eurodac recast and allocation system to Dublin) or only recently (Regulation 
The corresponding appropriations for payments were reduced by two amending budgets of EUR 85.6 million, from EUR 153.3 million in the original budget to EUR 85.6 million in the final budget.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.26.18.
In December 2017, the Internal Audit Service (IAS) submitted a report to the Commission on the control of procurement procedures at eu-LISA (209).
The Agency has drawn up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.26.19. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(208) International Function Point Users Group. (209) The farm has not overworked these inspection work.
C 434/156 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Year 2013 State of adoption of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.z.) In the course of the ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years Comments of the Court Gem-§ of the Agency's declaration of grounds are contributing to the Agency's budget.
The Agency concluded a framework contract of EUR 2 million for procurement services, which a contractor provides for third party training, coaching and learning (training) offers.
In 2016, the agency received and accepted goods worth 2.8 million euros, for which there were no commitments and legal obligations (contracts).
2015 (not under the control of the Agency) Out of print 2015 2015 2016 In progress (not under the control of the Agency) Out of print
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/157 EN Court observations The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded in its July 2016 audit report that the overall structure and practical implementation of the procedures ensure that eu-LISA operates the SIS II, VIS and Eurodac IT systems in a way that enables national authorities using these systems to exchange data continuously and without interruption.
The rate of committed appropriations carried over to the following financial year is high for Title II (administrative expenditure) with 5 million euros and 63% of committed appropriations (2015: 9 million euros and 50% respectively).
In June 2015, the agency completed a construction contract of 21.5 million euros for its premises in Stra§burg.
At one of the meetings of the Agency's Management Board in 2016, the Commission representative raised the issue of rising maintenance costs.
Although the rising costs can be explained, for example, by the ongoing development and the extended functions of the systems, the Court determined procurement procedures, in which the agency did not overrule that the most cost-effective solution had been chosen.
For example, under a framework agreement, the Agency acquired a new software license for 4.6 million euros without verifying whether the contractor of the framework agreement, acting as intermediary between the Agency and potential software suppliers, had achieved the best price.
In May 2016, the Agency concluded a consortium agreement of EUR 194 million, which covered the development and maintenance of the Visa Information System (VIS) and the system for the reconciliation of biometric data (BMS) over a period of up to six years.
Year 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
C 434/158 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court observations An external evaluation of the Agency was carried out by M.rz on behalf of the Commission by December 2015 and the results were presented in the final evaluation report in M.rz 2016.
The evaluators made 64 recommendations to further improve operational management, seven of which are considered critical and eleven very important.
The Agency has drawn up a plan to follow the recommendations; this plan is currently being implemented. 2016 Progress of the correction (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.) n.e.c.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/159 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.26.8.
In the case of medium-value procurement procedures, the Agency shall systematically publish ex-ante notifications on its website in accordance with Article 103(2) of the Financial Regulation.
In December 2017, the Commission presented two proposals for a regulation establishing a framework for interoperability between EU information systems (in the areas of borders and visas, police and judicial cooperation, asylum and migration).
In addition, the Agency's mandate (in the last stages to be adopted) is revised to determine the extent to which interoperability measures are developed, which are subject to the adoption of relevant legislative proposals.
The Agency has so far brought its technical expertise and know-how into the discussions of the High Level Group on Information Systems and Interoperability.
At the same time, a study (which is not yet completed) was conducted to obtain a clear picture of the future architecture of interoperable IT systems.
The study also includes a impact assessment and a migration and integration plan for the interoperability components of existing and future systems.
The agency is in favour of the reduction in the implementation of the construction project in Stra§burg.
The staff moved to the new building after the work was completed.
The construction work in the other building is on the data center and is still ongoing.
To support this contract, the Agency signed a contract with an external law firm.
She pointed out that she also published job offers on the website of the EU Agency Network and on the ăEU Training.
However, additional funding is needed to take account of EPSO's language regime, which requires job vacancies to be translated into all EU languages (e.g. the cost of translating a job advertisement into all EU languages is estimated at EUR 12 000).
As regards the electronic submission of tenders, the tool could not be used on the platform managed by DG DIGIT of the Commission due to technical problems; therefore, like other agencies, the Agency was unable to use the platform in 2017 with a reliable basis.
Once the platform is stable, the agency intends to use it for its allocations.
3.26.13.
The Agency notes the findings and is seeking to further reduce the number of projects that fall behind the timetable and has therefore started implementing measures to improve the planning process (see also note 32.6.16).
According to the Agency's key performance indicators (point 22) in the 2017 consolidated annual report, the projects completed against the parameters quality, cost and time are currently worth 8.79%, which is within the target of 10%.
In 2017, eu-LISA's project management method was adapted and updated to align it with the PRINCE2 strategy and method.
An Enterprise Project Management Tool was introduced to enable better reporting and resource allocation across the agency.
3.26.14.
The agency besties the high participation of external contractors in IT projects (operational and organisational).
This high outsourcing rate is directly linked to the Commission's Communication COM(2013) 519 on financial and human resources planning for decentralised agencies in the period 2014-2020.
In the establishment plan in 2012, the Agency was not provided with sufficient posts for the scope of its tasks.
The Agency's tasks were also considerably increased from 2013 onwards, but its requests for additional staff were rejected and the Agency had to reduce its staff (a total of seven posts), as requested by the Commission's communication.
In order to ensure a proper separation of tasks, the contractors involved in the quality assurance do not provide external support services for the operational management of IT-Group systems.
The agency is in a position to take over this extraordinary situation, in which a staff member had to carry out temporary additional tasks.
The appointment was forced due to the long absence of the head of the operational department and the ongoing recruitment procedure for the further free leadership position.
To remedy this situation, the Agency appointed another employee, the head of the ăSecurity Unit, as the chief head of the ăOperation and Infrastructure Unit, until the newly recruited leader took up his duties on 1 July 2018.
EN C 434/160 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 3.26.16.
System developments can only be summarized when the call for tenders for framework contracts is launched, which is why specific developments must be negotiated as soon as the requirements are known (e.g. when the legal basis of the systems changes).
In the context of the reworking of its procurement strategy, the Agency will address the options for procurement, including the adoption of the IFPUG method to reduce the dependence of a single contractor on further developments.
The Action Plan for the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) in 2017 on the control of procurement procedures includes elements that are relevant to this remark.
3.26.17.
The scenario and the associated risks were identified in 2016 and included in the estimate of the Agency's revenue and expenditure for 2017.
Due to the lack of legal basis for the new tasks, the Board of Directors was informed throughout the year about the risks and constraints associated with the adoption of major global commitments.
3.26.18.
The agency bestifies this information.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/161 3.27.
EUROPEAN CENTRAL FOR JUDICIAL COOPERATION (EUROJUST) INTRODUCTION 3.27.1.
Council Decision 2002/187/JHA(210) established the European judicial cooperation unit (hereinafter referred to as the Eurojust), based in The Hague, to strengthen the fight against serious organised crime.
3.27.2.
The table contains the most important figures for Eurojust (211).
Table Main figures for Eurojust 2017 Budget (million euro) 48 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 242 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROVISION OF THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENT CLEARANCE PRESIDENCY IN 2016 44 245 PRESENTATION JUDGMENT 3.27.3.
We have a) audited the annual accounts of Eurojust, consisting of the annual accounts (212) and the reports on the implementation of the budget (213) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Court of Auditors' decision to enforce the Court of Auditors' decision to grant the Court of Auditors' powers 3.27.4.
According to our assessment, the annual accounts of Eurojust for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the balance and financial position of the entity as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending on that date, in accordance with its financial rules and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 63, 6.3.2002, p. 1.
(211) Further information on Eurojust's facilities and activities can be obtained from www.eurojust.europa.eu.
(212) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(213) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/162 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.27.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.27.6.
3.27.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.27.8. Eurojust publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.27.9. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/163 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations In its 2010 report, the Court noted that a redefinition of the respective tasks and obligations between the Administrative Director and the College of Eurojust should be considered in order to avoid overlapping of obligations currently arising from the establishment regulation.
At EUR 6446530 or 40% (2015: EUR 1.6 million or 22%), the rate of committed appropriations for Title II (expenditure for supporting activities) was high.
These transfers mainly concerned work that extended beyond the end of the year, and K such a project, which was commissioned in preparation for the move from Eurojust to new premises in 2017 (4 867 482 euros).
Year 2011 2016 The new Eurojust Regulation is still being reviewed by the legislator. State of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.) In progress (not under the control of Eurojust) n.e.c.
DE C 434/164 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF EUROJUST 3.27.8. The statement that Eurojust does not use EPSO for recruitment processes is correct.
This approach is based on financial restrictions, as EPSO requires that job advertisements be translated into all 24 official EU languages.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/165 3.28.
AGENCY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION FOR COOPERATION IN THE FIELD OF THE EUROPEAN UNION INTRODUCTION 3.28.1.
The European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also based in The Hague, was established by Regulation (EU) 2016/794 of the European Parliament and of the Council (214), repealing and replacing Council Decision 2009/371/JHA (215).
The Agency aims to support and strengthen the effectiveness of the police forces and other Member States' law enforcement authorities and their mutual cooperation in the prevention and control of serious criminal offences, terrorism and criminal offences affecting two or more Member States, which violate a common interest which is the subject of a Union policy.
3.28.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (216).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 118 Total staff numbers on 31 December (1) 804 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (217) and the budget implementation reports (218) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.28.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 135, 24.5.2016, p. 53.
OJ L 121, 15.5.2009, p. 37.
(216) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.europol.europa.eu.
(217) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(218) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/166 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.28.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.28..6.
3.28.7.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.28.8. The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.28.9.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a 2017 audit report on procurement in the European Police Office (219).
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.28.10.
The appendix contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years. (219) The Court did not carry out these audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/167 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Court observations As in previous years, the rate of committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) was high at 3.5 million euros and 39% (2015: 4.2 million euros and 41%).
These transfers concern expenditure incurred mainly in 2016 for the headquarters of the Office, which will not be charged by the host state until 2017 (2 million euros).
Year 2016 Progress of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.) n.e.c.
EN C 434/168 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.28.8.
Europol employs over 220 liaison officers from EU Member States and third countries and organisations.
The common working language of Europol is English. Therefore, Europol's internal language arrangements adopted by the Management Board set out that, unless otherwise agreed, recruitment procedures should be carried out in English.
For this reason, Europol's job advertisements are published in English.
Europol has a clear and effective recruitment process with a 0% vacancy rate at the end of 2017. In the 89 recruitment procedures carried out in 2017, there were an average of 58 candidates per selection process.
For the publication on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), the translation into the EU official languages is required in addition to the English version.
Due to the high number of job vacancies per year, translation into EU official languages would entail high costs and the length of the procedures would be longer.
Europol focuses on operational needs in budgetary expenditure, which is why job advertisements are translated into all EU official languages, including EPSO publication, only in certain cases (e.g. the Executive Director or Deputy Executive Directors).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/169 3.29.
EUROPEAN UNION AGENCY FOR PRINCIPLE RIGHTS (FRA) INTRODUCTION 3.29.1.
The European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Vienna, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 168/2007 (220).
3.29.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (221).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 23 Total staff numbers on 31 December (1) 108 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (222) and the financial implementation reports (223) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.29.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 53, 22.2.2007, p. 1.
(221) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.fra.europa.eu.
(222) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(223) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/170 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.29.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.29.6.
3.29.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.29.8.
The Agency is the head of the Corporate Services department of the accountant.
In 2017, the Agency encountered difficulties in obtaining studies because of unrealistic market restrictions.
At least three open tenders were unsuccessful, as the Agency received only tenders in the required quality which significantly exceeded the maximum contract value.
3.29.10.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (224) (225). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT comprehensive, which includes all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES AND EXTERNAL EVALUATION REPORTS 3.29.11.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service carried out a review of governance and ethics in the Agency(226).
3.29.12.
In 2017, an external evaluation of the Agency's performance was carried out on behalf of the Commission in the period 2013-2017 (227).
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.29.13. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(224) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(225) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(226) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
(227) The Court has not carried out this evaluation work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/171 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years' comments by the Court The formal delegation of powers (or further delegation of the power of authorising officers) by authorising officers (or authorised authorising officers) do not always agree with the rights of instruction in the ABAC Workf low module.
At 5.2 million euros and 68% (2015: 5.7 million euros and 70% respectively), the rate of committed appropriations for Title III (operational expenditure) was high.
This is primarily due to the nature of the activities to which the funding of studies extends over several months, often also from the turn of the year.
The Agency may make use of separate budget resources to better meet the multi-annual nature of the activities and inevitable delays between contract signings, deliveries and payments.
Year 2016 2016 Progress of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.) Completed
EN C 434/172 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.29.8.
Following the restructuring of the Agency, which will be completed by the end of 2018, the position of the auditor will be subordinated to the administrative responsibility of the Director and will be directly under the management board (as has always been the case).
To maintain existing synergies, the invoicing officer will continue to work closely with the Corporate Services department.
3.29.9.
All the studies concerned were publicly advertised and were therefore limited to small economic operators.
The large-scale studies carried out by FRA are quite unique in the EU, both in terms of the subject matter and in terms of the need to be carried out in all EU Member States.
The Agency has limited resources for these measures.
However, in future calls for proposals of this kind, the Agency will consider carrying out market research, possibly over-examine technical requirements and, in the light of the possibilities, reassess the priorities of the studies to be carried out.
Nevertheless, this problem is much easier to solve if more funds are used for operational expenditure.
The Agency started to implement such systems in 2018 and will be ready to implement them within the deadline set.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/173 3.30.
EUROPEAN AGENCY FOR THE FRONTEX INTRODUCTION 3.30.1.
The European Agency for Border and Coast Guard (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), was established by Regulation (EU) 2016/1624 of the European Parliament and of the Council (228) (the new Regulation on the establishment of the Border and Coast Guard), repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 (229).
It was expanded 
The new regulation extends the agency's mandate and gives the agency the task of providing an integrated border management at the external borders at European level to effectively manage the crossing of external borders.
This includes the fight against migratory pressure and potential future threats to these borders, while at the same time contributing to the fight against serious criminality with a cross-border dimension, in order to ensure a high level of internal security within the Union, while fully respecting fundamental rights and the respect for freedom in this area.
3.30.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (230).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 281 Total staff on 31 December (1) 526 (1) Personnel employed in the Agency, including officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
The final establishment plan for 2017 provided for more posts: 352 posts for temporary officials and staff, and 303 posts for contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (231) and the reports on budget implementation (232) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 347, 20.12.2016, p. 1.
OJ L 349, 25.11.2004, p. 1.
(230) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.frontex.europa.eu.
(231) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(232) The budget implementation reports include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/174 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.30.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.30.6.
Note 3.30.7.
The Agency's expenditure on financial assistance has increased significantly from EUR 123 million (2016) to EUR 167 million (2017).
Unlike in previous years, the Agency did not make ex-post payments on the reimbursement of expenditure related to grants in 2017.
It considers that ex ante processing carried out prior to reimbursement has been improved and now 
However, the Court has repeatedly reported since 2014 that the cooperating States often do not prove the expenditure they claim, which was again the case in this case (see points 3.30.12-3.30.13).
3.30.8.
In 2016, the Court recommended that the Agency be identified in a detailed analysis as the most appropriate financing mechanism (233).
In this context, the Court notes that the Board of Directors decided at the end of 2017 to use unit costs instead of reimbursement of actual costs for operational activities.
At the same time, a pilot project was launched in 2018 to determine unit costs for funds deployed by cooperating states.
In addition, in June 2017, the Board of Directors approved a new organisational structure of the Agency, which will take effect from 2018 and includes the creation of a new inspection and control body, which will report directly to the Executive Director and the Board of Directors in order to adapt the existing organisation to the new mandate (see point 3.30.9).
3.30.9.
In view of the migration crisis facing the Union, the Agency's mandate was significantly expanded in 2016.
The Agency's budget was increased by 75% in 2016 and the budget for 2017 was again 21% higher than in the previous year.
The staff increased by 18% in 2016 and by an additional 43% compared to the previous year.
The adaptation of the systems and procedures to the new mandate and the new circumstances is still in progress.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment and are to be read against the background of the challenges the Agency had to address.
COMMENTS ON THE RIGHT TO BE LEGAL AND ORDER OF THE PROPOSALS 3.30.10.
Following an open call, the Agency received four offers of guidance services for the promotion of migrants within Greece.
After the selection criteria were examined, three offers were retained and one was excluded.
The only criterion for the award was the price.
In April 2017, the Agency signed a framework agreement of EUR 2 million for a three-year period with the Förrbetriebe, which had offered the lowest price.
However, the contractor's funding was limited from time to time and he had problems to complete the contract, so the agency started the order at the end of 2017.
To ensure continuity of services, the Agency signed a new framework agreement of EUR 1.8 million for the remaining period with the second-ranked bidder, who had offered the second lowest price in November 2017.
It did not negotiate the terms of this replacement contract with the tenderers in second and third place, but signed the new contract on the basis of the original tender submitted by the second-placed tenderer.
The direct award of the replacement was contrary to the rules, since the original award procedure was completed and a negotiated procedure for agreeing the terms of the contract, which should apply until the conclusion of a new open procedure, was not held.
No payments were made for this replacement order in 2017.
3.30.11.
The Staff Regulations provide that in the case of an external selection procedure, temporary staff shall be recruited only in grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (234).
In 2017, the Agency hired two staff members (2016: 14) in higher AST grades.
(233) Special Report No 12/2016 ăAgency grants: not always adequate or demonstrably effective. (234) Article 53(2) of the Staff Regulations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/175 COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12.
In 2017, the Agency of the Icelandic K-guard provided financial support in connection with the deployment of an aircraft in Greece.
Before reimbursement of expenditure claimed by Iceland, the Agency requested invoices as proof of a category of expenditure declared.
Although the invoices were never submitted, the Agency reimbursed around EUR 440 000.
In this case, the ex ante overprung was therefore ineffective.
3.30.13.
The Agency also co-financed the use of an aircraft used by the Spanish Guardia Civil.
In the absence of evidence for the costs claimed for inspection and maintenance work, the Agency reimbursed 430 000 euros on the basis of average costs per flight hour.
These average costs were calculated on the basis of cost ceilings used in exchanges between Spanish authorities and private contractors for inspection and maintenance work.
There is a risk that higher costs will be reimbursed than actually incurred.
3.30.14.
Although the Agency has already moved in with its current accounts in 2014, it has not yet drawn up a comprehensive emergency plan approved by the Board.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY FURTION 3.30.15.
The Agency again cancelled a large amount of committed appropriations transferred from the previous year for the reimbursement of expenditure incurred by states participating in joint actions, amounting to EUR 7.7 million and 16.5% (2016: EUR 5.6 million and 17.6%).
This shows that the cooperating States had again clearly overestimated the expenses to be reimbursed by the Agency.
Although joint actions had to be cancelled for two consecutive years, the Agency transferred €9.6 million from other budget lines to joint actions in 2017, which again transferred an amount of € 40.5 million to the following financial year.
Joint actions represent 69% of the total amount cancelled in 2017 (EUR 11.1 million) and 46% of the total amount transferred in 2018 (EUR 87.6 million).
3.30.16.
In 2017, 66.5 million euros were available for return operations. However, fewer actions were carried out than funds were available.
The Agency therefore paid back to the Commission EUR 13.5 million and 20.3% (2016: EUR 23 million and 37.5%).
In addition, the Agency paid EUR 4 million of the budget budget (staff expenditure) budgeted under Title I to the tune of EUR 4 million, as not as many new employees could be hired in 2017.
3.30.17.
The Agency's original budget for 2017 amounted to 8.8 million euros for the required operational financial default to finance immediate border security and return operations (235).
However, in September and again in October 2017, the Agency transferred 1.9 million euros (totaling 3.8 million euros) from the reserve to its operational budget to finance other activities.
3.30.18.
After the transfer of appropriations from other budget lines and the establishment of an amending budget, the appropriations entered in the reserve amounted to 24.7 million euros and 8.1% of the original budget.
The Agency, however, used the reverse mainly to finance standard operations (8.4 million euros) and to finance a project for remote air surveillance (drones, 7 million euros), for which it had estimated only 1.1 million euros.
The estimation and use of unmandable complaints is incompatible with the principle of the speciality and is a source of budgetary transparency.
COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.30.19. The Agency publishes job advertisements on its own website and in other media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO).
3.30.20.
In line with its framework financial regulation, the agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (236) (237). As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), the electronic publication of documents on contract notices in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and the electronic submission of tenders (2015).
According to the Commission, the Agency had initiated electronic invoicing and the electronic invitation to tender for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not the electronic submission of tenders. (235) Article 75(13) of its basic Regulation. (236) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)).
(237) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
EN C 434/176 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.30.21.
However, the documents provided by the cooperating States as supporting documents for the expenditure claimed are not always sufficient.
No certificates of inspection were also required, although this is recommended for grants exceeding certain ceilings in the implementing provisions for the EU Financial Regulation (1).
In view of the large and constantly increasing number of grant agreements and the size of the expenses to be paid and reimbursed by the agency, the question arises whether more efficient and cost-effective forms of financing could be used.
The contributions of the associated Schengen countries (Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Iceland and Norway) must be calculated more precisely to better comply with the legislation(3).
The ex post operation carried out by the Agency in Iceland in October 2015 identified illegal payments in the amount of 1.4 million euros, which were linked to the depreciation of a vessel involved in seven joint actions between 2011 and 2015.
The Icelandic K-Sew had requested the reimbursement of the depreciation costs for the ship, although its service life had already exceeded the guidelines of the agency.
Although the Agency is entitled to recover the irregular payments made within the last five years, it has announced that only payments made since January 2015 will be recovered in the amount of 0.6 million euros.
C 434/178 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court observations The Internal Security Fund was established for the period 2014-2020.
It includes two instruments: the instrument for financial support for external borders and visas, and the instrument for financial support for police cooperation, which provides €2.8 billion (borders and visas) and €1 billion (police cooperation) to finance operations.
Under the instrument for financial support for external borders and visas, the Commission shall reimburse Member States for the cost of equipment such as vehicles or ships and for operating costs such as fuel or maintenance costs.
The Agency shall also reimburse participants in joint actions for such costs.
There is therefore a risk of double financing (4) which is not taken into account.
The costs incurred at border crossings of participating states are determined on the basis of cost statements, which include ăFix costs (depreciation and maintenance costs), ăvariable expenditures (mainly fuel) and ăUsage costs (mainly expenses and other expenses for crew members).
The reported costs are based on actual values and correspond to national standards. Consequently, the approaches of the participating states differ, which leads to a system that is particularly complex for all participants.
In its Special Report No 12/2016, the Court recommended that agencies make use of simplified cost options whenever this appears appropriate to avoid such inefficiencies (5).
The Agency's previous advisory decree, which was in force until 5 October 2016, provided for the financing of joint implementation actions with participating countries.
However, from January to October 2016, the Agency financed national reverse actions with an amount of 3.6 million euros.
These payments are illegal.
The Staff Regulations provide that in the case of an external selection procedure, temporary staff shall be recruited only in grades SC 1 to SC 2, AST 1 to AST 4 or AD 5 to AD 8 (6).
In 2016, the Agency hired 14 staff in higher AST grades.
At EUR 6.4 million and 43% (2015: EUR 3.2 million and 38%) for Title II (administrative expenditure) and at EUR 67.3 million and 37% (2015: EUR 40.2 million and 35% respectively) for Title III (operational expenditure), the rate of committed appropriations carried over to the following financial year was up.
The Agency may use separate budget appropriations to better meet the delays that inevitably arise between legal obligations, mandates and commitments and payments.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/179 EN Court observations The cancellation rate of the commitment appropriations transferred from 2015 was high for Title III (operational expenditure) at 6.4 million euros and 16% respectively, as the costs of 2015 that had to be reimbursed to participating States in 2016 had been overestimated.
The Agency's expanded mandate places great emphasis on reverse actions; in the 2016 budget, funds for reverse actions were allocated to the amount of EUR 63 million.
However, 23 million euros or 37.5% of this amount were paid back to the EU budget, as fewer return actions were carried out than planned.
The significant reduction in the procurement procedure for a framework contract of EUR 50 million for the chartering of aircraft and related services for Frontex R-turnover actions contributed to this situation and continues to have a negative impact on the number of return actions organised by the Agency.
The launch of this award procedure was scheduled for March 2016 and still not completed by the end of the year.
On 22 December 2015, the Commission and the Agency, as co-chairman and coordinator of three other co-chairmen (EASO, IOM and UNHCR) (7) signed a grant agreement of EUR 5.5 million to support the protection-oriented migration management in the Western Balkans and Turkey, which will apply for a period of three years from 1 January 2016.
However, the cooperation agreements with the three partners (legal obligations) of EUR 3.4 million were signed only in the period August to November 2016.
In the case of two of these agreements, commitments 
Furthermore, commitments amounted to EUR 1.2 million and covered only pre-financing payments.
Such a move is contrary to the provisions of the Financial Regulation on budgetary management; moreover, the signing of the agreements at the end of the year led to uncertainty regarding operational cooperation between the partners.
The Agency's 2016 establishment plan provided for 275 posts for temporary officials and staff (8). At the end of 2016, only 197 and 71% of those posts were filled, mainly as 50 new posts were created only in October 2016 and the recruitment has yet to be completed.
The agency regularly raises difficulties in recruiting employees with the required profiles, partly due to the correction coefficients for the employees to be reduced (66.7%). Year 2016 The status of the correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outstanding/ n.e.c.)
C 434/180 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN Court observations As a result of the extension of its mandate, the number of staff of the Agency will exceed double the number of employees from 365 in 2016 to 1,000 in 2020(9).
This increase was not based on a sound assessment of needs.
The Agency is currently analysing together with the Commission and the host country the possibilities to reduce this need.
Year 2016 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) n.e.c. (1) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2012, p.
(2) Article 3(4) of Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 limits co-financing of joint actions by the Agency to the extent necessary.
(3) Agreement between the European Community, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation and the Frestdom of Liechtenstein, of the other part, on the definition of the modality of the participation of these States in the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union (OJ L 347, 31.12.1990, p.
(4) The Court had already referred to this risk in paragraph 39 and Recommendation 4 of its Special Report No 15/2014 ăThe Boundary Fund contributed to more financial solidarity, but the measurement of results must be improved and additional EU added value created.
(5) Recommendation 1 of the Court's Special Report No 12/2016 Use of financial assistance by agencies: not always appropriate or demonstrably effective.
(6) Article 53(2) of the Staff Regulations.
(7) European Support Office for Asylum (Malta), International Organisation for Migration (Belgrad) and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (Geneva).
(8) 192 posts were also granted to contract staff and seconded national experts.
(9) Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the European Border and Coast Guard and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004, Regulation (EC) No 863/2007 and Council Decision 2005/267/EC (COM(2015) 671 final 
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/181 REPLY OF THE AGENCY REPRESENTATIONS ON THE LEGALITY AND ORDER OF THE PROPOSAL 3.30.10.
After Frontex had decided to terminate the contract, it was necessary to ensure continuity of services until a new contractor was selected.
In view of the limited market for the services in question in the region (the very small number of economic operators) it was considered that the most appropriate solution was to conclude a contract of merger with the company which had cut off as the second best supplier in the original tender for the selection of shipowning vessels.
Therefore, in this case, the procedure for the continuation of a tendering procedure has already been completed.
The agency took into account in its decision that the company had already had experience in providing Förhrdienste for Frontex and that the relevant RÖckmeldungen were very positive; the offered Förhre fulfilled all the technical minimum requirements.
The contractor agreed to provide the services on the same terms as were required and offered in the original tender.
In November 2017, an exemption was signed, in which the hindsights for this decision were explained.
The 
The application of the price as the sole criterion had been carefully examined and was based on the experience gained in the past two years by Frontex in the procurement process for the provision of funds for takeovers between the Greek islands and Turkey.
Due to the market restrictions in the geographical region 
The services provided by Frontex were short journeys between Greek islands and Turkey to promote returnees under the EU-Turkey Agreement of Accession, ensuring that these actions were carried out in a safe environment and in full respect of fundamental rights.
In line with the last sentence of Article 31(2) of the Staff Regulations (In order to take account of the special needs of the institutions, the recruitment of officials can also take into account the labour market situation in the Union.)
This decision was fully in line with the posts (which form part of the budget) and had never been questioned by the budgetary authorities.
Since March 2017, Frontex has not hired any external applicants in higher grades than grade AST 4.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.30.12.
The costs for inspection/maintenance work are defined as the costs for all inspection/maintenance work during the entire life of the device (...).
The data used by the manufacturer or the maintenance site of the manufacturer using the device are used.
This means that the hourly rate can be expressed in the form of a cost statement by the beneficiaries, either based on the manufacturer's estimates or on a price calculated on the basis of the actual costs incurred in previous years, or on a cost statement, using reference data for similar means of use, if it is a new means of use and no data are available.
Invoices (or due to the amount of data of equivalent booking documents) can only be provided if the hourly price is based on the actual costs incurred during the reference year.
However, the person concerned also has the possibility to set an hourly rate on the basis of average reference prices if no invoices were actually issued.
This was the case with the selected payment, whereby the Icelandic K'stenwacht presented Frontex with a statement of the maintenance costs.
The documents submitted by the Icelandic K-Squad have incorporated the results of ex-post controls carried out by an ex-post control team of Frontex in 2015 during a visit to the maintenance centre in Iceland, where the team had submitted the documents submitted by the Icelandic K-Squad as the basis of their calculation methods.
Therefore, the document submitted by Iceland provides sufficient reason for the approval of the issue, in the opinion of Frontex.
The total amount of an hourly rate for all inspection/maintenance work of an aircraft with fixed wings is three units with special regulations: 
The Guardia Civil calculates Frontex the hourly rate for engine maintenance according to the contractual specifications.
If less time is spent on engine maintenance, the overall limit is not reached.
Therefore, in this case, the hourly rate is not relevant to the total value of the contract.
EN C 434/182 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 
The Agency assumes that the Guardia Civil will pay the total amount indicated in the contract upon termination of the contract.
The amount of an hourly price is calculated by dividing this total cost by the number of hours of flight.

The Agency assumes that the Guardia Civil will pay the total amount indicated in the contract upon termination of the contract.
The agency cannot, in the light of the above, join the Court's risk assessment, since the guarantees paid to the Guardia Civil are ultimately equivalent to the guarantees paid on the basis of a contract covering a total price.
The current concept for the measures to perform the operation, the current strategy and the resulting emergency plans were developed and (annually) updated on the basis of the legal framework and structure, which were in force until the end of 2016.
Due to the extended mandate and the corresponding new structure, the emergency plans of the responsible bodies are revised in particular, since the organizational changes also require a complete reworking of the underlying documents.
COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY FURTION 3.30.15.
The main challenge is related to the feasibility of commitment claims during a given year.
To avoid the risk of high cancellations, Frontex also asked the people to submit their requests for final payment for the first half of 2016 and to forward Frontex's proposals for the costs of current operations (December 2016) or planned operations (January 2017) in the context of the operational activities of 2016 to the end of the fourth quarter of 2016.
The main objective of these calls was to identify possible over-implementations, reduce the corresponding SFD allocations and reuse the funds in 2016.
Despite some positive results of this action, the transfer of funds was still high.
Consequently, despite a proper assessment of actual financial needs, Frontex required additional resources to ensure financial coverage of the operations in autumn 2016, since the cancelled funds of the terminated and ongoing operations were not available at this time.
The Agency has developed a simplified support scheme, which will be implemented from the 2018 operational cycle and which will apply significantly higher cost costs for increases of up to one year; the Agency not only strengthens the monitoring of the implementation of grants, but also seeks to reduce the cancellation of transfers.
The Agency's main objective in the context of the return operations was achieved despite the repayment of funds to the Commission: it provided Member States with technical and operational support for the return operations and carried out specific measures aimed at the period prior to the return (to identify returnees, training/training, exchange of knowledge between Member States, etc.).
In 2017, the number of return actions coordinated by Frontex increased significantly: with an increase of 47% over the previous year, the number of migrants in an irregulable situation increased from 10 700 in 2016 to 14 200 in 2017.
This represents an annual 10% share of the total number of EU migrants actually returning to third countries (in 2014 the corresponding figure was 2%).
Recruitment The reimbursements of staff expenditure were mainly due to the difficulties and the associated delays in recruitment procedures: lengthy procedures, long deadlines for cancellation, insufficient number of applicants and lack of geographical balance due to a low correction coefficient.
Nevertheless, the Agency considers it to be a success that within one year over 250 new employees were recruited and incorporated.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/183 3.30.17.
2017 was the first year of implementation of the new ECC Regulation for the Agency.
Article 75(13) requires the Agency to include in its budget an operational financial reserve of 4% of the appropriations earmarked for operational operations, to finance emergency operations for border management purposes (RABIT) and return operations.
On 1 October each year, at least one quarter of the total amount of the reserve should remain available to meet needs which are due to occur by the end of the year.
The required operational reserve was introduced so that the agency can at any time during the year over a certain reserve for the execution of immediate items for border protection purposes and for the coverage of the possible costs of such an emergency operation.
The European Parliament had amended the original text of the ECC Regulation proposed by the Commission to add that only a quarter of the reduction in the remaining three months of the year must remain available on 1 October.
The ECC regulation is silent on what is to be done with the remaining three quarters of the deficit after 1 October; this point is unclear.
The first transfer at the end of September was intended for the financing of more stringent operational measures in the air and at sea and the acquisition of own air monitoring services; the second transfer took place after 1 October.
The Board of Directors was informed in the monthly report on transfers.
The Agency considers that the legislator should provide clarity.
The unmandatory situation had already been envisaged during the preparations for the Single Programming Document (SPD) 2017-2019.
In accordance with Article 75(3)(ff) of the ECC Regulation, the preparation of the SPD and the estimate of revenue and expenditure in N-2 was started and completed in late autumn of N-1.
The ECC Regulation entered into force in October 2016.
The Agency had to plan the detailed annual work programme 2017 (as part of the SPD 2017-2019) for the whole year 2016 
Towards the end of 2016, the SPD 2017-2019 was already completed and was available for approval to the Board of Directors, which fully supported the creation of the unmandatory situation in view of the transition to the European Border and Coast Guard.
The Commission stated in its opinion on the SPD 2017-2019, (C92016)8722, in paragraph 63: ăThe Commission stated that emergency planning has become a guiding principle for the preparation of the annual work programme and that the Agency intends to provide almost 10% of its operational budget for the so-called "operational flexibilit" (...).
In this context, the Commission calls on the Agency to establish two separate actions within its budget, the first fully in line with Article 75(13) of the EC Treaty Regulation and the second providing the Agency with the possibility of maintaining operational flexibility in order to deal with emergencies not involving immediate action.
Since the Agency publishes its job offers in English, while the EPSO requires translation into all EU official languages, this would mean that the cost would increase significantly and that the job placement procedure would be cancelled.
Frontex distributes information about vacancies about other Kan-le, i.e. the network of EU agencies, the Board of Directors, Stundenreträge, Eurobrussels and social media.
The instrument will be used for the first time after the signing of an agreement with the Commission (DG DIGIT).
As a formal deadline for this instrument, Article 90(2) of the Procurement Directive, which the Commission applies to the agencies, was adopted at the end of October 2018; Frontex will comply with this deadline.
EN C 434/184 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under the MFR sub-heading 4 
EUROPEAN FOUNDATION FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING (ETF) INTRODUCTION 3.31.1.
The European Training Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the Foundation), based in Turin, was established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1360/90 (238) (recast Regulation (EC) No 1339/2008 (239).
The Commission is working on this in the implementation of various vocational training programmes.
3.31.2.
The table contains the most important figures for the Foundation (240).
Table Key figures for the Foundation 2017 Budget (million euros) 20 Total staff on 31 December (1) 125 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROVISION OF THE COURT OF FIRST INSTITUTIONS OF THE INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENT FINAL PRESENTATION IN 2016 21 130 PRESENTATION JUDGMENT 3.31.3.
We have a) audited the Foundation's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (241) and the financial implementation reports (242) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The annual accounts of the Foundation for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Foundation's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its financial statements and cash flows, and the changes in the net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 131, 23.5.1990, p. 1.
OJ L 354, 31.12.2008, p. 82.
(240) Further information on the Foundation's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.etf.europa.eu.
(241) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(242) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/185 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.31.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.31.6.
3.31.7.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.31.8.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report in 2017 on the progress of vocational training in the Turin process in the Foundation (243). The Foundation prepared an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.31.9 The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(243) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
C 434/186 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations In 2016, an external evaluation of the Foundation was carried out on behalf of the Commission.
This was the first step in a cross-cutting evaluation of the four agencies in the field of employment, social affairs and integration(1).
The evaluators concluded that the significant restructuring of the Foundation had no significant negative effects since 2011 and that the internal and external stakeholders were mainly positive, in particular with regard to strategy and effectiveness.
The management structure of the Foundation was considered efficient and effective.
The evaluation also stresses that the Foundation has improved its monitoring capacity since 2011 and that it must, however, make its achievements even clearer.
The harmonisation and simplification of indicators in a single intervention logic and the use of common terminology throughout the Foundation would help to improve.
The Foundation drew up a plan to implement the recommendations of the evaluators.
In his report on the financial statements of the Foundation in 2011, the Court stressed that the situation regarding the Foundation's financial statements is unsatisfactory and that the Foundation is in danger of not continuing to carry on its activities.
The situation has remained unchanged since the consortium responsible for managing the complex, which used part of the premises in the complex itself, was completed in 2011 and left the corresponding rooms empty.
The Member State where the Foundation is based urgently needs to find a solution to this problem.
The seat agreement guarantees adequate formalities until 2027.
Year 2016 Status of the correction (completed/in progress/outstanding/n.e.) n.e.z.2016 Finished (1) The other agencies to be evaluated are the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Dublin), the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work (Bilbao) and the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Thessaloniki).
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/187 REPLY OF THE FOUNDATION The Foundation takes note of the Court's report.
EN C 434/188 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Agencies financed under the MFF sub-heading 5 
EURATOM SUPPLY AGENCY INTRODUCTION 3.32.1.
The Euratom Supply Agency (hereinafter the Agency) was established in 1958, with its headquarters in Luxembourg(244).
Council Decision 2008/114/EC, Euratom(245) replaced the previously applicable Statute of the Agency.
The Agency's main task is to ensure regular supply of nuclear materials, in particular nuclear fuels, to EU users, on the principle of equal access to sources of supply through a common supply policy.
3.32.2.
From 2008 to 2011, the Agency was not allocated its own budget to finance its activities.
From 2012 onwards, the Commission has provided the Agency with its own budget, but only a small part of its expenditure is covered.
3.32.3.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (246).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 0.1 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 17 (1) Staff includes officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROTECTION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (247) and the financial implementation reports (248) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
(244) OJ L 347, 31.12.1990; Bull.
OJ L 41, 15.2.2008, p. 15.
(246) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website http://ec.europa.eu/euratom/ index.html.
(247) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(248) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/189 Legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial judgment on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.32.6. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.32.7.
EN C 434/190 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY The Agency takes note of the Court's report.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/191 Self-financed agencies 3.33.
COMMUNITY SORTING INTRODUCTION 3.33.1.
The Community Plant Variety Office (hereinafter referred to as the Office), also known as the CPVO, was established in Angers by Council Regulation (EC) No 2100/94 (249).
3.33.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Office (250).
Table Main figures for the Office 2017 Budget (million euro) 16 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 51 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
The Court of Auditors' annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(251) and the financial implementation reports (252) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Court of Auditors' opinion on the validity of the accounts 3.33.4.
According to our assessment, the Office's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Office's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in the net revenue for the financial year ending on that date, in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 227, 1.9.1994, p. 1.
(250) Further information on the Office's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.cpvo.europa.eu.
(251) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(252) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
DE C 434/192 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.33.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.33.6.
3.33.7.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.33.8.
In 2017, procedures for awarding and awarding grants were not adequately documented.
The Office did not produce evaluation reports for the procurement of services by means of low and medium value contracts, there were inconsistencies in the published contract documents, records of the pre-selection of candidates for low value contracts, and for the award procedures for the recruitment of temporary work contracts.
In addition, the award criteria were not clearly stated.
As regards the award of grants, the risk assessments were not appropriate and the expert opinions were not signed.
The Office should establish a uniform framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures.
The Office had not introduced any of these tools by the end of 2017.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.33.10. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(253) Article 74 Electronic administration (ăe-Government).
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/193 ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations F such a large part of its payments is used by the Office for electronic payments.
The accountant or his two alternates can sign the payments electronically.
As of 31 December 2015, the total number of outstanding fees (mainly annual fees) was 240 766 Eu-ro(1).
The Office did not use all the means provided for in its financial regulation to recover outstanding expenses, such as foreclosure (2). At EUR 788 540 or 40% (2015: EUR 395 882 or 28 %), the rate of committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) was high.
These transfers mainly concern current expenditures (284,423 euros), IT projects (253,483 euros) and costs for audits and evaluations (137,098 euros), for which services are partly provided in 2017 or only invoiced this year.
The cancellation rate of the 2015 appropriations for payments to the following year was also high for Title II, with 17% (2015: 20%), indicating that budgeting needs to be improved.
Periodic external performance evaluations are not required by the Office's regulations.
While the Office or the Commission has carried out ad hoc evaluations of specific issues, the Office should, together with the Commission, undertake to commission external performance evaluations at least every five years, as most other agencies do.
EN C 434/194 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE OFFICE 3.33.8.
It agrees with the Court that the documentation should be improved and points out that the necessary assessments, evaluations and opinions have been carried out or prepared as part of the respective procedures.
3.33.9.
The Office has concluded a contractual agreement with the European Commission before the end of the year on the provision of the tool for the electronic submission of offers.
At that time, there were no tenders that fulfilled the conditions for using the tool, and the use of the tool was not mandatory at that time.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/195 3.34.
The Office of the European Union for Intellectual Property (hereinafter referred to as the Office), which ran until March 23, 2016, under the name of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (OHIM), was established in 1993.
Its original regulation was last amended by Regulation (EU) 2017/1001 of the European Parliament and of the Council (254).
The core of the Office, which is based in Alicante, is the registration of Union trade marks and registered Community designs which have legal validity throughout the EU.
3.34.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Office (255).
Table Main figures for the Office 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 401 Total staff numbers at 31 December 995 (1) The budget figures include the revision of unforeseen events.
The Court of Auditors' annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts(256) and the financial implementation reports (257) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017, and (b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, as provided for in Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Office's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Office's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in the net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 154, 16.6.2017, p. 1.
(255) Further information on the Office's facilities and activities can be found on its website https://euipo.europa.eu.
(256) The annual accounts include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(257) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/196 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.34.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.34.6.
3.34.7.
In 2017, the Office cancelled EUR 3.2 million and 15.9% of the committed appropriations carried over from the financial year 2016.
The Office continued to use fixed prices for services (258).
The prices used in the individual service contracts are based on unit prices (price/persons' day, etc.) and the number of units used for the service concerned by way of a standard procedure.
In the process of price quotations from contractors, the Office ensures that unit prices are correctly applied.
3.34.10.
However, in a framework agreement with a value of 80 million euros on general advisory, audit and project management services and studies, the list of services to be provided in connection with the framework agreement was not exhaustive.
In order to assess the offers, the service descriptions contained two business cases relating to the management of a project and a multi-project programme.
This framework agreement is a multi-framed mixed agreement, partly using a cascade procedure (general advisory and project management services) and partly a renewed call for competition (praction and studies).
The protected units were pre-defined by the Office, but the bidders were asked to determine the distribution between the different profiles.
The framework agreement and also some of the associated individual agreements were therefore advertised on the basis of unit prices, types of profiles and quality, but not the expected number of units, which is another essential element in the calculation of a fixed price contract.
3.34.11.
The framework agreement was awarded a single contract with a fixed price of 145 447.50 euros, which mainly concerns the provision of support services for the execution of a document management project.
The necessary staff days for the provision of these services cannot be derived from the business cases described in the service descriptions or from the description contained in the individual contract.
Therefore, a fixed price as defined in this individual contract risks not being provided in the most economic way.
3.34.12.
If not all the conditions for the provision of services in the framework agreement can be defined, the individual contracts are more appropriate for a renewed call for competition among several contractors of the framework agreement.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.34.13. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(258) See also paragraph 21 of the previous year's report.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/197 EN Year 2016 State of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) Completed (3) ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations The Office's budget implementation rate was low at 89%, suggesting an inaccurate estimate of its expenditure in the 2016 budget.
As a result of the most recent changes to the Foundation Regulation and the Office's financial regulations, it has become more important that the Office, if necessary, draw up a detailed budget using an amending budget, since the budget-based items now provide for mechanisms such as the allocation of appropriations to a R & D complaint fund(1) and a related compensation mechanism (2).
In 2014, the Office launched a call for tenders for a framework contract of four years covering a protected market volume of 30 million euros for the procurement of advisory services covering a wide range of activities, including training, project management, general advisory services and studies.
However, the procurement procedure and the subsequent use of the framework agreement were partly not adequately managed.
The objectives and the activities to be carried out were not sufficiently precise to ensure a precise assessment of the volume of the framework agreement.
Therefore, the resources of the framework agreement were exhausted after only two years and six months.
In addition, despite the variety of services to be procured and the very different expenditures per activity, no lots had been used.
The use of lots would encourage smaller companies to participate in the low-value process.
Finally, the price competition was neutralised and the contractor granted the discount, as fixed price offers were requested by a single contractor using the framework agreement.
The Office should decide to enter into agreements with several suppliers and, if necessary, to call for competition.
The Office's declaration of approval states that the translations required for the Office's work are made by the Translation Centre for the European Union (CdT) institutions, which leads to the fact that the Centre's office is the principal customer.
The Office is increasingly using internal solutions such as linguistic and translation memory as well as additional software.
These instruments are designed to improve the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of the Office.
However, from the perspective of the European Union, the current situation could lead to a doubling of the expenditure and the corresponding costs.
2016 In progress (4) 2016 In progress (1) Article 89(1) of its Financial Regulations, the Office establishes a fund for actions, the budget of which is to be continued for one year and the implementation of its tasks, i.e. in its entirety, in accordance with the appropriations entered in Titles 1, 2 and 3 of the Office's budget.
(2) Article 139 (4) and (6) of the Decree on the establishment of the Office shall be applied each year to the costs incurred by the authorities responsible for the protection of the intellectual property of the Member States, the Benelux Office for Intellectual Property and any other relevant authority designated by a Member State as a functional component of the European Union trade mark system in the framework of various services and procedures, only to the extent that no budget deficit arises this year.
(3) In 2017, the Office's budget implementation rate was 97%.
(4) See point 3.34.8.
EN C 434/98 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE OFFICE'S COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.34.8.
While the cancellation rate is just over 15%, the amount of cancelled committed transfers is the lowest of the last ten years (since 2008) at EUR 3.2 million.
The Office continues to work with national authorities to reduce the cancelled transfers through interim reports on implementation and half-yearly inspections with reinforced control measures, which are an integral part of each new cooperation agreement.
Further measures were also implemented internally, such as awareness-raising measures through coaching, training, information notes and meetings with financial actors.
Furthermore, the Office expected that 15% of the cancelled transfers would be exceeded before the end of 2017 and took proactively additional measures to reduce the transfer for the next year.
The Office took note of the Court's observations.
It should be noted in advance that the scenarios described in the procurement documents for the future use of the contract were aimed at being as vivid and representative as possible and not expected to be linked in detail to each specific contract.
As regards the adequacy of the re-opening of the competition mechanisms and as stated in the Office's response to the 2016 audit, this concept has already been introduced in the revised framework agreement on audits and studies.
The Office has compared the added value of this mechanism with the administrative costs involved and, given the Office's intensive use of advisory and project management services, has concluded that this is not the most efficient way to manage the latter types of operations.
Taking into account the fact that the current framework agreement is valid until 2020, the extension of this mechanism to advisory and project management services would require a new call for tenders at this time, which the Office does not consider appropriate.
In the existing cascade system for consulting and project management services, the Office repeats the answer to the 2016 audit for the use of fixed price procedures.
The main reason for choosing this option is that the Office is subject to proceedings before the Spanish labour courts in relation to a non-right-hand transfer of employees, which are inter alia related to the use of the earlier ăTime and Means.
The Office has experience in evaluating tenders during the fixed price procedure (under the cascade system).
The EUIPO has set up a specific team, which is able to provide resources to fulfil the tasks behind fixed-price performance, based on previous practice and expertise.
However, we believe that the Court's concerns can be addressed by other contractual methods than the ăfixed prize, for example, by means of the ăQuoted Time and Means 
The Office undertakes to provide further information and to document its own estimates of resources required to perform the tasks of fixed price services before issuing the request for assistance to provide proof of the above-mentioned experience of the Office in advance.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/199 3.35.
STUDY DEVELOPING EXCLUSIONS (SRB) INTRODUCTION 3.35.1.
The Single Resolution Committee (hereinafter referred to as the Committee), also called the SRB, was established in Brussels by Regulation (EU) No 806/2014 on the Single Resolution Mechanism (ăSRM Regulation) (259).
3.35.2.
The Committee is responsible for the management of the Single Resolution Fund (hereinafter referred to as the Fund), which was established by the SRM Regulation and is intended to be supportive under the Single Resolution Mechanism.
3.35.3.
The Committee has its own budget, which is not part of the EU budget.
3.35.4.
The table contains the most important figures for the Committee (260).
Table Main figures for the Committee Budget (million euro) Part I (Committee's administrative budget) Part II (Fund's budget) 2017 113 6 462 2016 65 11 800 182 Total staff on 31 December (1) (1) Staff shall comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: Data provided by the Committee.
OJ L 225, 30.7.2014, p. 1.
(260) Further information on the Committee's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.srb.europa.eu.
(261) The annual accounts include the annual accounts, the financial results, the cash flow statement, the net change table, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations. (262) The budget implementation reports include the annual accounts, which summarize all revenue and expenditure projections, and explanations.
EN C 434/200 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenue Judicial judgment on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.35.7.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.35.8.
Emphasis on a case 3.35.9.
Without questioning its rulings in paragraphs 3.35.6-3.35.8, the Court would like to stress that the contributions to the Fund are calculated on the basis of the information sent to the Committee by credit institutions (and some investment firms).
The Court relied on these data when examining the Committee's revenue, but did not take account of their reliability.
The SRM Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework to ensure the reliability of the information.
Furthermore, the Committee cannot provide details of the contributions per credit institution calculated on the basis of a risk assessment, as the calculations are not available and include confidential information about other credit institutions.
3.35.10.
Administrative complaints or legal proceedings between credit institutions and national resolution authorities and the Committee in connection with contributions to the Fund and the Court of Justice of the European Union brought by former shareholders and creditors of Banco Popular Espa such as S.A. following the adoption of the resolution concept, the Court did not examine the matter in order to avoid affecting the parties' position in these proceedings.
Detailed information is given in paragraph 8 of the Committee's annual accounts.
3.35.11.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment. COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY CURRENCY 3.35.12.
The Committee did not ensure that payments were made within the time limit.
Some 28% of the payments (9.5% of the total amount paid) to contractors and reimbursements to experts and employees were made after the deadline.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE ACCOUNTS 3.35.13.
Article 92(4) of the SRM Regulation is reported by the Court, in particular, on the contingent liabilities arising from the performance of its tasks under this Regulation for the Committee, the Council and the Commission.
According to the preliminary procurement plan annexed to the 2017 Work Programme, 16 different services were to be awarded, but in fact only legal advice was awarded.
In addition, the estimated value of the contract for the provision of legal advice was stated in the previous procurement plan at 3 million euros, while the actual order volume amounted to 29 million euros.
This indicates an inadequate procurement planning.
3.35.15.
Of the projects 
In addition, two grants of EUR 3 million for consultancy and support in economic and financial evaluation (as foreseen in the 2016 annual work programme) were also awarded by way of such a procedure.
Abermsige use of such methods leads to the restriction of competition.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/201 3.35.16.
The Committee should adopt a single text for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (263).
As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of offers (2015). The Committee had not yet introduced any of these tools by the end of 2017.
3.35.17.
The Committee publishes job advertisements on its own website and on social media, but usually not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would respect the principle of transparency, raise public opinion and encourage the citizens to consult the opportunities offered by the various European institutions and agencies.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.35.18. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(263) Article 75 of the SRB Financial Regulation of 25 March 2015.
C 434/202 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 EN ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years Court observations The Committee took up its activity in 2015 and gradually established its internal control environment.
However, the preparation, adoption or implementation of a number of essential procedures and controls are still pending. In addition, the risk management and control strategy, the standards for internal control, the regular evaluation of the proper functioning of the internal control system and the fraud prevention strategy are not included.
The accounting officer has not yet validated the accounting system of the Committee.
Of the available funds, only 62% (2015: 67%) and 35 million euros (2015: 15 million euros) (1) were spent.
The committed appropriations for Title II (administrative expenditure) for the following financial year amount to EUR 3.1 million and 35% (2015: EUR 3.3 million and 70% respectively) of the total committed appropriations.
They concern mainly IT-related services issued in 2016 (1.9 million euros) and security services not yet invoiced and paid for this year (0.6 million euros).
The commitment appropriations for Title III of the budget (operational expenditure) for the following financial year amount to EUR 5.3 million and 66 % respectively (2015: EUR 1.6 million and 40 %) of the commitment appropriations.
They mainly concern services provided by the European Central Bank (1.9 million euros), legal services (1.5 million euros) and IT services (1.3 million euros), for which payments are due in 2017.
Between July and October 2016, the Committee committed EUR 2 million for the procurement of legal services, which were not planned in the annual work programme or budget, nor was a financing decision adopted before the commitment of the funds concerned.
The Fund paid negative interest to the national central banks in 2016 using the negative interest rate on the deposit facility.
This reduced the amount of future settlement of cumulative amounts.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/203 EN Court's observations The Committee must carry out its recruitment procedures more closely, set clear minimum scores to be reached by the candidates and define the tasks and responsibilities of the members of the selection committee more precisely.
The implementation rate in 2016 2017 was 71% and 71 million euros respectively.
50 million euros in 2017.
EN C 434/204 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE COMMITTEE 3.35.9.
The annual contributions to the Fund collected in advance shall be calculated on the basis of the information provided to the Committee by credit institutions and certain investment firms.
Although the SRM Regulation does not provide for a comprehensive and uniform control framework which ensures the reliability of this information, the SRF pays any attention to this aspect.
The data provided are compiled using the data transmitted by the institutions in the previous year and the data contained in the ECB database.
Deviations are reported to national resolution authorities who are asked to clarify the facts. Thus, it was possible for the SRF to improve the quality of the data in the previous cycles.
Furthermore, the Committee cannot disclose any details of pre-investigations per institution calculated on the basis of a risk assessment, as the calculations are not available and therefore confidential information about other institutions would be disclosed.
However, the SRF has disclosed the calculation method and detailed calibrations to ensure transparency and cooperation.
3.35.12.
In 2017, the financial team's capacity was insufficient to ensure efficient handling of all financial transactions, including bills, due to a combination of unexpectedly high workload, unfortunate staff turnover in the financial team and general difficulties in finding experienced employees.
Since the fourth quarter of 2017, the team's capacity has been strengthened and measures have been taken to ensure the timely processing of invoices.
By this date, almost 98 % of the invoices were settled within the deadlines set in 2018.
Any late payment case is now being closely examined to achieve further improvements in this area.
3.35.14.
The SRB's 2017 procurement plan was adopted in 2016, when the Committee was only in its second full year of existence.
At that time, no resolution cases had been dealt with and the Agency had little experience on the basis of which its procurement plan could be drawn up.
As a new agency, the SRB could use various interinstitutional frameworks managed by the European Commission.
This led to the fact that several procurement procedures, which the SRB should initiate in 2017, were ultimately not implemented.
In 2018, the implementation of the procurement plan will be closely monitored and additional efforts will be made to improve the planning of procurement procedures.
In 2017, the SRB spent a total of 20 million euros on legal advice.
Almost all negotiated procedures without prior publication of a contract notice concerned litigation (eight out of ten contracts with a total value of EUR 10.9 million) which did not fall within the scope of Directive 2014/24/EU.
This also includes a large number of disputes brought before the ECJ after the first resolution procedure of the SRB.
The SRB does not therefore consider that it uses such methods 
As regards the economic and financial valuation of two of the two cases in 2017, the re-implementation of a competition proved unsuccessful. Therefore, the SRB was forced to resort to negotiation procedures.
Due to the subject matter of the contract and the need for the highest degree of confidentiality, the contract notice was not published in accordance with the applicable rules.
3.35.16.
The online access to tender documents has been available to economic operators since the Committee was established on the SRB website and has been fully integrated into the electronic tender platform since the end of 2017.
In June 2017, the SRB requested that it be able to use the electronic submission of offers, but the Commission has not yet gained access.
The SRB has found that such publications on the EPSO website do not increase the quality or the number of applications and are also very expensive due to the mandatory translation of job advertisements.
Therefore, the SRB publishes its job advertisements preferably on its own website as well as on EU_CV online and LinkedIn and informs its stakeholders (central banks, finance ministries, national authorities, other EU agencies and permanent representations) about this.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/205 3.36.
The Translation Centre for the European Union (hereinafter referred to as the Centre), based in Luxembourg, was established by Council Regulation (EC) No 2965/94 (264).
The Centre's task is to provide the institutions and bodies of the European Union, which use the Centre's services, with translation services which they perform for their service.
3.36.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Centre (265).
Table Main figures for the 2017 Centre Budget (million euro) 49 Total staff on 31 December (1) 215 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Centre.
DECLARATION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Centre's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (266) and the budget implementation reports (267) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.36.4. According to our assessment, the annual accounts of the Centre for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the financial and financial situation of the Centre as at 31 December 2017, the results of its operations and cash flows and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 314, 7.12.1994, p. 1.
(265) Further information on the Centre's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.cdt.europa.eu.
(266) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(267) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/206 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.36.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.36.6.
Note 3.36.7.
The Centre's task is to provide the EU's agencies and bodies with translation services which they can use for their service, and it also performs this task in relation to the EU institutions which can use the Centre's services.
The regulations of most agencies and bodies provide for the Centre to be able to carry out translation services.
Some agencies and institutions (which more than half of the Centre's revenue is spent on) are increasingly resorting to in-house opportunities or other alternatives to the rest.
This means, however, that the capacity of the Centre is not used to the maximum, that there is a doubling in the development of systems and running costs at European level, and that the business model and the business development of the Centre could be maintained.
In 2017, an external assessment of the adequacy of the Centre's business model was carried out.
The final evaluation report had not yet been adopted at the time of the Court's examination (268).
3.36.8.
COMMENTS ON THE EXISTENCE OF THE CURRENCY 3.36.9.
The agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (269) (270).
As a requirement also applies to the EU institutions, the Commission is currently developing an IT package covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
The Centre had introduced electronic invoicing for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not the electronic tendering and submission of tenders.
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.36.11. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(268) The Court did not carry out this evaluation work.
(269) Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1271/2013, Article 79 Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(170) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/207 EN ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years Court observations The Centre has not yet adopted a business continuity plan and therefore does not include the standard for internal control No 10 (1).
In 2016, the cash and short-term bank deposits of the Centre were reduced to 34.2 million euros (end of 2015: 38.3 million euros). Reserves decreased to 31.1 million euros (end of 2015: 34 million euros). This decline is the result of a budgetary approach aimed at reducing the surplus accumulated in previous years (2).
Year 2015 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) Completed In progress (1) (2) The standards for internal control of the Centre are based on the relevant standards of the Commission.
This trend continued in 2017.
EN C 434/208 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE CENTRE 3.36.9.
The accountant is independent in the performance of his accounting duties.
This independence is ensured by the fact that it is appointed by the Board of Directors and its position is unlimited.
In order to increase the independence of the accountant, he will be directly subordinated to the Director of the Centre from 2018 onwards for the duties of the accountant, and his annual assessment will be carried out by the Director.
3.36.10.
The Centre will use these two instruments developed by the Commission from October 2018.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/209 Commission executive agencies 3.37.
EXECUTIVE GENTRAL EDUCATION, AUDIOVISUAL AND CULTURE (EACEA) INTRODUCTION 3.37.1.
The Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), also located in Brussels, was established by Commission Decision 2013/776/EU(271) repealing Decision 2009/336/EC(272).
The Agency is responsible for managing programmes decided by the Commission in the fields of education, audiovisual and culture, and for carrying out technical projects in detail.
3.37.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (273).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 50 Total staff on 31 December (1) 436 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROVISION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (274) and the financial implementation reports (275) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying the accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.37.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 343, 19.12.2013, p. 46.
OJ L 101, 21.4.2009, p. 26.
(273) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.eacea.ec.europa.eu.
(274) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(275) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/210 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.37.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.37.5.
3.37.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.37.8.
The head of the Agency's accountant is the head of the Finance, Accounting and Programming Department.
The Executive Agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (276). As a requirement also applies to EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.37.10.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented in 2017 audit reports on the management of recovery orders for money transactions due to competition disputes (including collateral for money transactions due to competition disputes) and recovery orders in the context of the Commission's corrective capacity, and on phase 1 of the grant management in relation to the Erasmus+ and Creative Europe programmes (277).
The Agency has drawn up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
(276) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government), (277) The Court has not carried out this audit work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/211 EN ANNEX Follow-up of observations from previous years Comments of the Court In the annual inventory of the Agency's assets in 2016, 46 IT articles with a total purchase value of approximately 22 000 euros were not found, which indicates M-ngel in securing the assets.
At EUR 2.3 million and 47 % (2015: EUR 2.8 million and 50 %), the rate of committed appropriations for Title III (support for operational activities of the Agency) was high.
These transfers mainly concern current invoices of projects (0.8 million euros) and IT services (0.9 million euros) commissioned in 2016 but not yet invoiced at the end of the year, or which will only be delivered in 2017.
Year 2016 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
EN C 434/212 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.37.8. The Agency considers that its accountant has a high degree of independence.
The appointment by the Steering Committee and the function-related injunction against the Committee should be noted that the EACEA's invoicing officer as a seconded higher-ranking Commission official is per se much less independent than the invoicing officer who is on the ground.
This constellation makes the seconded accountant part of the organisational structure of the superordinate DG, in our case DG EAC.
The Agency will analyse the Court's comment and consider potential actions by other EU agencies and/or Commission organisational guidelines.
As the agency's top management level carries out changes, the matter is submitted to the future director for examination.
3.37.9.
The Agency follows the Commission's e-procurement project strictly.
It plans to start the electronic tender (e-tendering) in July 2018, which will follow the procedure for the electronic submission of tenders (e-submission).
3.37.10.
Both measures have now been sent to the Internal Audit Service and accepted by it.
It should be noted that all planned measures have now been implemented.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/213 3.38.
EXECUTIVE GENTRY FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED ENTERPRISES (EASME) INTRODUCTION 3.38.1.
The Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Brussels, was established by Commission Decision 2013/771/EU (278) for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2024.
Its main task is to manage EU measures in the fields of research and innovation, competitiveness of SMEs, environmental and climate policy, and marine and fisheries policy in close cooperation with seven Commission Directorates-General.
3.38.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (279).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 43 Total staff on 31 December (1) 434 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (280) and the financial implementation reports (281) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.38.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 341, 18.12.2013, p. 73.
(279) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.ec.europa.eu/easme/.
(280) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(281) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/214 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.38.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.386.
3.38.7.
COMMENTS ON THE RELIABILITY OF THE CURRENCY 3.38.8.
In the course of this year's audit of EU agencies, the Court analysed the accounting system, including the hierarchical position and independence of the accountants, as well as the aspect of the timely (re)validation of the accounting systems.
The head of the agency's accountant is the head of the financial department.
The Court therefore considers it necessary to strengthen the independence of the auditor by directing the Director (administrative interests) and the Agency's Steering Committee (functional concerns).
3.38.9.
The Agency's mandate was also considerably expanded in 2014: it is now managing EU actions in various areas in cooperation with seven Commission Directorates-General.
Despite major changes in the Agency's procedures and a significant increase in its budget and staff, the accounting system was revalidated in 2012.
The Executive Agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (282). As a requirement also applies to EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It has launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.38.11.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented in 2017 audit reports on the management of COSME (the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises) by the Agency and the management procedures of the Agency's Human Resources Department(283).
The Agency has prepared action plans to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.38.12. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years. (282) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government)
(283) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/215 EN ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years Court observations The rate of committed appropriations for the following financial year was high for both Title II (administrative expenditure) of EUR 1 250 000 and 33% (2015: EUR 998 324 and 14% respectively) and Title III (support for the Agency's operational activities) of EUR 2 550 000 and 62% (2015: EUR 4 million and 65% respectively).
Title II was mainly related to rent (0.6 million euros) and the purchase of hardware that had not yet been delivered at the end of the year (0.5 million euros).
The funds transferred under Title III concerned the evaluation and monitoring of the LIFE programme by external experts (EUR 1.5 million), ongoing ex-post inspections (EUR 0.5 million) and IT services (EUR 0.5 million), which were commissioned in 2016, but only partially delivered at the end of the year and have not yet been invoiced.
The Agency may make use of separate budget resources to better meet the multi-annual nature of the activities and inevitable delays between contract signing, deliveries and payments.
The high cancellation rate of the appropriations transferred from the previous year to Title I (staff expenditure) 
Year 2016 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/ n.e.c.)
EN C 434/216 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.38.8.
The Agency considers that its internal control system provides sufficient security to ensure effective separation of duties and the independence of the accountant.
The accounting officer was appointed by the Steering Committee.
The Steering Committee shall accept the provisional and final accounts, the administrative budget and any further changes.
The principal services of the accountant to be provided are approved by the Director.
The Agency considers that a change in the current reporting and organisational structure would not have a decisive impact on the risks and controls of accounting decisions.
However, the Agency will closely monitor the situation and adjust the organisational and reporting requirements if necessary.
3.38.9. The accounting team started to validate the accounting systems in December 2017 and will conclude them in 2018.
3.38.10.
In the field of procurement, the agency has introduced electronic invoicing for certain IT providers since 2013, including complete electronic processing and an automated interface to the ABAC workflow.
From 2018 on, electronic invoicing will be further promoted and will gradually be applied to other suppliers, depending on their infrastructure and electronic equipment.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/217 3.39.
Executive Agency of the European Research Council (ERCEA) INTRODUCTION 3.39.1.
The Executive Agency of the European Research Council (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Brussels, was established by Commission Decision 2008/37/EC (284).
The Agency was established for the period from 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2017 to manage the specific programme ăIdeen- of the Seventh Framework Programme for Research.
Council Decision 2013/743/EU(285) gave the Agency the function of the implementing body responsible for all aspects of the administrative and practical implementation of the Horizon 2020 research programme, which implements the measures under the specific objective of strengthening the pioneering research through activities of the European Research Council (286).
3.39.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (287).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 47 Total staff on 31 December (1) 477 (1) Staff comprises officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts. Source: data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (288) and the financial implementation reports (289) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
3.39.4. According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1.
(285) OJ L 347, 31.12.1990; Bull.
(286) Implementation period 2014-2020.
(287) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.erc.europa.eu.
(288) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(289) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/218 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.39.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.39.6.
3.39.7.
The Executive Agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (290). As a requirement also applies to EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing an IT overview covering all stages of public procurement procedures.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).The Agency had introduced the electronic tender and electronic invoicing for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not the electronic submission of tenders.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.39.9.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a 2017 audit report on the procedures for the conclusion of FP7 (291) projects (292).
CONTINUE REFERENCES FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.39.10. The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(190) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(291) Seventh EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development.
(292) The court did not carry out these inspection work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/219 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Comments of the Court The opening and evaluation reports prepared by the Agency's Procurement Committee and the Recruitment Committee do not give a complete and practical picture of the actual procedures used.
The inadequate reports have affected the transparency of these procedures.
In its September 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the Agency has taken a number of strategic and operational measures to improve the recruitment, retention and allocation of its staff.
In this context, IAS concluded that the Agency has designed and implemented an appropriate human resources management system, enabling it to deploy a competent and committed workforce in a way that ensures that its objectives are met.
Although no critical or particularly serious problems were identified, the Agency and IAS agreed on an action plan to further improve this procedure in certain areas.
At EUR 1.3 million and 40% (2015: EUR 1.5 million and 43%), the rate of committed appropriations for Title III (operational expenditure) for the following financial year remained high, mainly due to external audits and communication measures that were carried over year-round.
The high transfer rate is in contradiction to the budgetary principle of annuality.
Year 2016 2016 2016 Progress of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.)
EN C 434/220 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.39.8. The electronic submission of tenders is currently limited to open procedures (the threshold is set by Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement and amounted to EUR 135 000 in 2017).
Since the Agency did not initiate such a procedure in 2017, and this will not be the case in 2018, the Agency was unable to use the electronic submission of tenders in 2017.
Moreover, the use of electronic submissions of offers in accordance with the Commission's roadmap will become mandatory for all EU institutions and agencies at the end of 2018.
Therefore, the entry process was started in 2018, and the agency will be able to deploy the electronic submission of offers before the end of the year.
In the case of negotiated procedures, the Agency will use the electronic submission of tenders once the Commission has integrated this option into the module.
3.39.9.
Following the Action Plan on FP7 Completion of projects, drawn up by the Agency and approved by the IAS, all measures were implemented by the ERCEA and submitted to the Internal Audit Service (IAS) on 9 April 2018 for follow-up.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/221 3.40.
EXECUTIVE GENTRY OF INNOVATION AND NETWORK (INEA) INTRODUCTION 3.40.1.
The Innovation and Networks Executive Agency (INEA 
The Agency was set up for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2024 for the management of Union actions in the field of Fazilit ăConnecting Europe, the Research and Innovation Programme for Research and Innovation for 2020, the Trans-European Transport Network and the Marco Polo Programme.
3.40.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (294).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 24 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 249 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
Source: Data provided by the Agency.
DECLARATION OF THE COURT 
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (295) and the budget implementation reports (296) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting grounds for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 352, 24.12.2013, p. 65.
(294) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.ec.europa.eu/inea.
(295) The annual accounts include the annual report, the financial results overview, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(296) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/222 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.40.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.40.6.
3.40.7.
The following comments do not call into question the Court's judgment. COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMICITY OF BUDGETARY CURRENCY AND SERVICES 3.40.8.
The Executive Agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (297).
As a requirement also applies to EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing an IT package covering all stages of public procurement.
It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).The Agency had introduced electronic invoicing for certain procedures by the end of 2017, but not the electronic tender and submission of tenders.
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.40.9.
In 2017, the Commission's Internal Audit Service presented a report on the grant management phase 2 
The Agency prepared an action plan to take corrective action in areas where there is a potential need for improvement. CONTINUE CONFERENCE OF COMMENTS FROM THE PREVIOUS YEARS 3.40.10. The annex contains an overview of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(297) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(298) The court did not carry out these work.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/223 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous years Court observations At EUR 0.5 million and 48 % (2015: EUR 0.5 million and 51 %), the rate of commitment committed for Title III for the following financial year was high.
Year 2016 Progress of correction acceptance (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.) n.e.c.
EN C 434/224 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.40.8.
The Agency had introduced electronic invoicing for certain procedures by the end of 2017.
The electronic tendering procedure and the electronic submission of tenders were not introduced, as they do not concern the Agency.
The allocations are made only by using low-value installations or existing frameworks managed by the services of the European Commission.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/225 3.41.
EXECUTIVE GENTURE FOR RESEARCH (REA) INTRODUCTION 3.41.1.
The Executive Agency for Research (hereinafter referred to as the Agency), based in Bringssel, was established by Commission Decision 2008/46/EC (299).
The Agency was established for a limited period (1 January 2008 to 31 December 2017) and is to manage specific Union actions in the field of research.
On 15 June 2009, the Agency received administrative and operational autonomy from the European Commission.
On 13 December 2013, the Commission, by implementing Decision 2013/778/EU (300), extended the period of validity of the REA to 2024 and transferred parts of the new Framework Programme for Research and Innovation to the Agency in 2020.
3.41.2.
The table below gives the main figures for the Agency (301).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) (1) 67 Total staff numbers at 31 December (2) 693 (1) The budget data are based on the appropriations for payments.
2. Staff shall include officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE PROVISION OF THE COURT OF FIRST INDEPENDENCE OF THE INDEPENDENT FINAL PRESENTATION PRESENTATION IN 2016 63 628 PRESENTATION JUDGMENT 3.41.3.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (302) and the financial implementation reports (303) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Court of Auditors' opinion on the validity of the Court of Auditors' opinion 3.41.4.
According to our assessment, the Agency's annual accounts for the year ending 31 December 2017 represent the Agency's financial and financial situation as at 31 December 2017, the results of its accounts and cash flows, and the changes in net revenue for the financial year ending on that date, in accordance with its financial regulations and the accounting rules adopted by the Commission's accounting officer, which are based on internationally recognised accounting principles for the public sector, in all essential respects.
OJ L 11, 15.1.2008, p. 9.
(300) OJ L 347, 31.12.1990; Bull.
(301) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website www.ec.europa.eu/rea.
(302) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(303) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/226 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.41.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.41.6.
3.41.7.
The following remarks do not call into question the Court's judgment.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.41.8.
The process of selecting contract staff has been weak.
The recruitment files and minutes of the selection committee meetings do not always contain the criteria used for selecting candidates from the recruitment database (304).
The Executive Agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (305).
As a requirement also applies to EU institutions and agencies, the Commission is currently developing an IT package covering all stages of public procurement procedures. It launched tools for electronic invoicing (2010), electronic publication of documents for contract notices in the online edition of the Official Journal of the EU (2011) and electronic submission of tenders (2015).
REPORTS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT SERVICES 3.41.10.
The Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) presented a report on the completion of FP7 projects at REA in May 2017 (306).
The Agency has drawn up an action plan to address areas where there is a potential need for improvement.
The annex contains a review of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years.
(304) In addition, reference is made to the report on the Agency's human resources management presented by the Commission's Internal Audit Service in 2016.
(305) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
(306) The farm did not carry out these work of inspection.
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/227 EN ANNEX Follow-up to previous observations Court observations In its December 2016 audit report, the Commission's Internal Audit Service (IAS) concluded that the Agency's overall staff management is appropriate.
The Agency and IAS agreed on a plan for corrective measures to the findings included in the report.
In another May 2016 audit report, IAS concluded that the Agency, together with the Commission, has set up an efficient internal control system for managing the grants granted under the Horizon 2020 programme.
The Agency and IAS agreed with the Commission on a plan for corrective measures to be taken to determine the finding which is considered to be very important.
The performance of the Agency was assessed externally on behalf of the Commission in the period 2012-2015, for which the final report was submitted in May 2016.
The conclusion of the evaluation is that the Agency has carried out its tasks in an effective, efficient and cost-effective manner in the period under consideration, that its mission for the Commission and the staff of the Agency is still relevant for the first time and that the transfer of operational tasks from the Commission to the Agency was successful.
The evaluation experts also made it possible to make the activities even more effective and efficient. The Agency and the Commission were invited to improve their internal dialogue and cooperation, communication on the basis of the information and personnel management aspects.
The Agency and the Commission agreed on a plan for corrective action.
EN C 434/228 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY 3.41.9
The introduction of the audited recruitment procedure, which identified weaknesses, was carried out in 2016. A reserve list was then drawn up and adopted in 2016, which was used to provide a job offer.
The selection process of REA for contract staff was revised and implemented later in 2017, taking into account the recommendation of IAS 2016.
The revised competition for contract staff considers the demands with regard to clearly documented search criteria for life and fitness tests as well as on admission and selection criteria.
The search criteria used by the selection bodies for the sighting of life documents are documented in their session minutes.
The Court's shortcomings in the amended procedure have therefore already been resolved.
In the procurement field, REA is committed to providing services with the Commission or to the Commission's framework.
REA would only initiate a special procurement procedure if there is a special need not covered by these agreements or contracts.
In 2017, REA only carried out a procurement procedure for a low-value contract.
The current tools for electronic tendering and submission of tenders are only applicable for public procurement procedures, the size of which is above the 144,000 euro threshold. As the REA has not yet launched a procurement procedure, the size of which is above this threshold, it was unable to use the tools for electronic tendering and submission of tenders in 2017.
Furthermore, the introduction of the electronic tender and electronic submission of offers in accordance with the Commission's roadmap for all EU institutions and agencies will be mandatory at the end of 2018, and thus the implementation process did not begin until 2018.
The Agency is already using electronic invoicing and will also use the modules for electronic tendering and submission of tenders when a tendering procedure is launched, as soon as these modules cover medium and low-value devices.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/229 3.42.
EXECUTIVE GENTURE FOR CONSUMER, HEALTH, AGRICULTURE AND FOODS (CHAFEA) INTRODUCTION 3.42.1.
The Executive Agency for Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food (hereinafter referred to as the Agency) was established on 1 January 2005 (2005-2008: Executive Agency for the Health Programme (PHEA), 2008-2013: Executive Agency for Health and Consumers (EAHC), as of 1 January 2014: Executive Agency for Consumers, Health, Agriculture and Food) (307).
The Agency is based in Luxembourg and has been renewed until 31 December 2024.
The Agency is implementing the Community action programme on health, the consumer programme and the Better Training for Safer Food initiative.
3.42.2.
The table contains the main figures for the Agency (308).
Table Main figures for the Agency 2017 Budget (million euro) 10 Total staff numbers at 31 December (1) 61 (1) Staff comprise officials, temporary and contract staff and seconded national experts.
We have a) audited the Agency's annual accounts, consisting of the annual accounts (309) and the financial implementation reports ( 310) for the financial year ending 31 December 2017 and b) the legality and regularity of the accounts underlying these accounts, in accordance with Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
The Court of Auditors' opinion on the validity of the Court of Auditors' opinion 3.42.4.
(307) Commission implementing Decision 2013/770/EU (OJ L 347, 31.12.2013, p.
(308) Further information on the Agency's facilities and activities can be found on its website http://ec.europa.eu/chafea/.
(309) The annual financial statements include the overview of the financial results, the cash flow statement, the table of changes in net assets, and a summary of the accounting grounds and other explanations.
(310) The reports on budget implementation include the overviews that summarize all revenue and expenditure forecasts, as well as explanations.
EN C 434/230 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 Legal status and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts Revenues Judicial opinion on the legality and order of the revenue underlying the annual accounts 3.42.5. According to our assessment, the revenue underlying the financial year ending 31 December 2017 is legal and regular in all essential respects.
Payments Jurisdiction of the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts 3.42.6.
Emphasis on a situation 3.42.7.
The Agency's accountant has been absent since the end of November 2017.
On 13 December 2017, the Agency's Steering Committee appointed a Management Board as ad interim accounting officer, although this Board represents the authorising officer in charge of the delegation.
This is contrary to Article 28 of the Agency's financial rules, which provides that powers of instruction and accounting are separate functions and exclude each other.
3.42.8.
COMMENTS ON INTERNAL CONTROLS 3.42.9.
In 2017, the Agency did not document sufficient recruitment procedures.
This would call into question the principles of transparency and equal treatment of applicants.
In 2017, the Agency had difficulties in reaching a sufficient number of tenderers in low and medium value procurement procedures.
It received only one offer for each of the proceedings.
3.42.11.
The Executive Agencies should establish a single framework for electronic storage and exchange of data with third parties involved in procurement procedures (311).
3.42.12.
The Agency publishes job advertisements for temporary staff on its own website and on social media, but not on the website of the European Personnel Selection Office (EPSO), which would increase transparency and publicity and enable the citizens to consult job advertisements issued by the various European institutions and agencies. COMMENTS ON BUDGETARY SURVEY 3.42.13.
The Agency's budgeting has been weak. In Title III of the budget, large amounts of committed appropriations were transferred from 2017 to 2018 to EUR 1.6 million and 63% (2016: EUR 1.2 million and 48%) respectively.
CONTINUING COMMENTS FROM 34.2.14
The Annex provides a summary of the corrective measures taken on the basis of the Court's observations from previous years. (311) Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012, Article 95(2) Electronic Administration (ăe-Government),
30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/231 EN ANNEX Follow-up to comments from previous years Court observations The Agency cancelled 0.2 million euros or 18% of its 2015 funds (2014: 0.1 million euros or 14%), which indicates M-angels in their planning.
The Agency transferred EUR 1.1 million and 48% (2015: EUR 0.9 million and 52%) of the appropriations committed under Title III (expenditure related to the Agency's activity) to the following financial year.
These transfers mainly concern IT services and other studies commissioned but not completed by the end of the year.
The Agency cancelled EUR 0.2 million or 17% of the funds transferred from 2015 to 2016, indicating that there was insufficient demand planning.
Year 2015 2016 Progress of correction (completed/in progress/outgoing/n.e.)
EN C 434/232 Official Journal of the European Union 30.11.2018 REPLY OF THE AGENCY REPRESENTATION OF A CONSULTATION 3.42.7 The annual accounts have been prepared and signed by the appointed and re-in office accountant.The separation of duties will be strictly observed in the future.
3.42.9 The Agency accepts the Court's observation that the recruitment file analysed by the Court was not adequately documented.
However, the CHAFEA ensured that no candidate was preferred in this selection process, as all candidates were treated equally.
3.42.10.
The CHAFEA carried out all the steps recommended in the Financial Regulation in these two low and medium-value contracts: the ex-ante announcement took place as required, and the legally required number of applicants was invited to submit an offer, with all applicants having a lot of experience with tenders and the desired services.
As to the time spent on tenderers to submit their bids, CHAFEA adhered to the DG BUDGET's vademecum for procurement.
CHAFEA is currently testing several IT modules for electronic procurement, including the electronic submission of tenders.
The first tender, where tenders are submitted electronically, will be tested in the third quarter of 2018.
CHAFEA will fully comply with the EU Commission's recommendation to implement the electronic bid submission system before the end of 2018.
CHAFEA agrees with the observation that the publication of job advertisements for temporary agents on the EPSO website can increase its visibility. 3.42.13.
The Agency accepts the Court's observations.
The agency will continue to reduce the transfer and C8 cancellation rate.
EN 30.11.2018 Official Journal of the European Union C 434/233 This report, including the 41 amendments for each agency and institution, was adopted by Chamber IV, chaired by Mr Neven MATES, Member of the Court of Auditors, at its meeting in Luxembourg on 18 September 2018.
Official Journal of the European Union C 373 58th year 10 November 2015 English edition Content 2015/C 373/01 2015/C 373/02 Notices and notices IV Information INFORMATION OF THE INSTITUTIONS, BODIES AND OTHER STELLS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION Court of Auditors Annual report of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2014 together with the replies of the institutions.......................................1 Annual report of the Court of Auditors on the activities of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh European Development Fund (EDF) for the financial year 2014 together with the Commission's replies.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
289 EN EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/1 IV (Information) INFORMATION OF THE INSTITUTIONS, BODIES AND OTHER BODIES OF THE EUROPEAN UNION COURT OF AUDITORS The Court of Auditors of the European Union has adopted, in accordance with Article 287(1) and (4) of the TFEU, Articles 148(1) and 162(1) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Articles 43, 48 and 60 of Council Regulation (EC) No 215/2008 of 18 February 2008 on the financial regulation applicable to the 10th European Development Fund, as amended by Regulation (EU) No 567/2014, its ANNUAL REPORTS on the financial year 2014 at its meeting of 10 September 2015.
These reports were sent to the institutions responsible for discharge and to the other institutions together with the institutions' replies to the Court's observations.
Members of the Court of Auditors: Vítor Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA (President), Igors LUDBORŽS, Jan Kinšt, Kersti KALJULAID, Karel PINXTEN, Henri GRETHEN, Szabolcs FAZAKAS, Louis GALEA, Ladislav BALKO, Augustyn KUBIK, Milan Martin CVIKL, Rasa BUDBERGYT", Lazaros S. LAZAROU, Hans Gustaf WESSBERG, Pietro RUSSO, Ville ITAELÄ, Kevin CARDIFF, Baudilio TOMÉ MUGURUZA, Iliana IVANOVA, George PUFAN, Neven MATES, Alex BRENNINKMEIJER, Danièle LAMARQUE, Nikolaos MILIONIS, Phil WYNN OWEN, Klaus-Heiner LEHNE, Oskar HERICS, Bettina JAKOBSEN.
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/3 ANNUAL REPORT ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BUDGET (2015/C 373/01)
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/5 CONTENTS General introduction............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter2 —Budgetary and financial management.................................................... Chapter3 —EU budget andresults..............................................................................
Chapter5 —‘Competitiveness for growth and employment'...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter6 —‘Economic, social and territorial cohesion'..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Chapter 7 —‘Natural resources'.....................................................................
Page 7 9 65 83 127 147 165 213 261 275
EN 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/7 GENERAL INTRODUCTION 0.1.
The European Court of Auditors is the institution responsible for auditing the European Union's (EU) finances, in accordance with the Treaty.
As an external auditor of the EU, we contribute to improving EU financial management while acting as independent guardians of the financial interests of the EU citizens.
More detailed information on our work can be found in the annual activity report, which is available on our website www.eca.europa.eu, as well as the special reports on EU expenditure programmes and revenue and the opinions on new or amended legislation.
This is our 38th annual report on the implementation of the EU budget, which concerns the financial year 2014.
The annual report on the European Development Funds shall be presented separately.
0.3.
The EU's general budget is adopted annually by the Council and the European Parliament.
Our annual report, together with the special reports, forms the basis for the discharge procedure, during which the European Parliament, following a Council recommendation, decides whether the Commission has performed its budgetary implementation tasks satisfactorily.
At the same time as we send our annual report to the national parliaments, we will also send it to the European Parliament and the Council.
0.4.
The main element of our annual report is the statement of reliability of the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union and the legality and regularity of transactions (hereinafter referred to as ‘the regularity of transactions').
We complement this Statement of Assurance with specific assessments of all major EU activities.
0.5.
The chapter structure now reflects the headings of the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF), which makes our report even more relevant.
The financial framework entered into force in 2014 and is intended to determine the extent and distribution of EU expenditure in the period up to 2020.
This should make it easier for readers to link the findings of our report with the relevant budgetary and accounting information.
0.6.
There are no separate annual accounts for each MFF heading and therefore the conclusions presented in specific assessments do not form an audit opinion.
0.7.
This year's report is structured as follows: — Chapter 1 contains the Statement of Assurance and a summary of the results of our audit on the reliability of the accounts and the regularity of operations. — Chapter 2 presents our findings on financial management and management. — Chapter 3 contributes to our strategic objective of improving the EU's public accountability. The focus is on the extent to which the performance framework enables the Commission to monitor and manage progress towards Europe 2020. — Chapter 4 contains our findings on revenue. — Chapters 5 to 9 (on MFF headings 1a, 1b, 2, 4 and 5)(1) show the results of our audits on the regularity of operations, as well as the audit of selected systems and annual activity reports.
0.8.
The Commission's replies (or, where appropriate, the replies of other EU institutions and bodies) to our comments are contained in the report. In presenting our findings and conclusions, the replies of the body examined are taken into account.
However, as an external auditor, it is our sole task to present our audit findings, to draw conclusions from these findings, and thus to make an independent and impartial assessment of the reliability of the accounts and the regularity of the transactions.
(1) We do not provide specific assessments of expenditure under the MFF 3 (security and citizenship) and 6 (compensation) headings.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/9 EN CHAPTER 1 Statement of Assurance and related statements CONTENTS Court Statement of Assurance submitted to the European Parliament and the Council — Report by the independent auditor Introduction EU expenditure is a significant tool for achieving policy objectives Audit findings for the financial year 2014 The annual accounts did not show any material misrepresentation of the regularity of transactions: our general audit results are consistent but indicate a significant error rate There are many forms of corrective measures with different effects The Commission's synthesis report confirms errors in the main scope of transactions Conjecture of fraud are forwarded to OLAF Conclusions I-XII 1.1-1.3 1.1-1.3 1.4-1.58 1.4-1.98 1.9-1.29 1.30-1.44 1.451-1.57 1.59.166 Annex 1.1 — Annex 1.2 — Annex 1.3 — Annex 1.4 — Annex 1.5 — Audit approach and audit methodology Follow-up of previous observations on the reliability of the accounts Excerpts from the consolidated annual accounts 2014 The estimated error rate (probless error rate, MLE — most likely failure rate) for the 2014 audit report — non-recoverable for the historical audit
DE C 373/10 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 TO THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL PRESENTED ACCOUNT OF THE COURT — THE REMARK OF THE INDEPENDENT ANNUAL AUDITERS I. We have examined: (a) the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union, the consolidated annual accounts(1) and the aggregated financial statements (2) for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 and approved by the Commission on 23 July 2015, and (b) the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying that annual accounts, as referred to in Article 287 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU).
Management II's responsibility. In accordance with Articles 317 and 318 TFEU and the Financial Regulation, the Commission is responsible for the establishment and proper presentation of the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union on the basis of internationally recognised public sector accounting principles and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
This responsibility shall include the design, establishment and maintenance of internal control structures necessary for the preparation and presentation of financial statements which are free from material misrepresentations, intended or unintended.
The Commission shall have the ultimate responsibility for the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts of the European Union (Article 317 TFEU).
The responsibility of the auditor III. Our task is to provide the European Parliament and the Council, on the basis of our examination, with a statement of the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying them.
We have conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as well as the professional conduct requirements of IFAC and the International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions of INTOSAI.
These standards require us to comply with professional behavioural requirements and to plan and carry out the audit in such a way that sufficient certainty is obtained as to whether the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union are free of material misrepresentations and the underlying transactions are lawful and proper.
IV. An audit shall include the conduct of audit proceedings in order to obtain audit evidence of the value estimates and other information contained in the consolidated annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
The selection of audit acts shall be at the discretion of the auditor, including the assessment of the risks of material misrepresentations, intended or unintended, in the consolidated accounts, and of material, intended or unintended, infringements of European Union legislation in the underlying transactions.
In assessing these risks, the auditor shall take into account all internal controls relevant to the preparation and proper presentation of the consolidated accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions in order to plan audit actions that are appropriate in the circumstances but not with the aim of delivering an audit opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
An audit shall also include an assessment of the adequacy of the accounting policies applied, the representativeness of the estimated values in the accounting and the overall presentation of the consolidated annual accounts.
V. In the field of revenue, we use the macroeconomic aggregates relevant for their calculation as the starting point for our examination of own resources based on VAT and derived from gross national income and evaluate the Commission's systems for processing these data until the Member States' contributions are received and until they are identified in the consolidated annual accounts.
In the area of traditional own resources, we examine the accounting of customs authorities and analyse the tax flows until they are received by the Commission and until the amounts are recorded in the accounts.
1. The consolidated financial statements shall include the balance sheet, the statement of income, the cash flow statement, changes in net assets, and a summary of key accounting rules and other explanatory notes (including segment reporting).
DE 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/11 VI. In the area of expenditure, we will review the payment transactions after the expenditure has been incurred, recorded and accepted.This audit will take place on all types of payments, except advances, (including payments for the acquisition of assets) only after they have been made.
Advance payments shall be verified if the beneficiary provides or has to provide proof of their proper use and the advance is settled or can be recovered.
VII. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to serve as the basis for our audit opinions.
The reliability of the accounts Audit opinion on the reliability of the accounts VIII. We consider that the consolidated annual accounts of the European Union for the year ending 31 December 2014 shall be the Union's financial and financial position as at 31 December 2014, the results of its operations and cash flows and the changes in net assets for the financial year ending that reference date in accordance with the Financial Regulation and the accounting rules based on internationally recognised public sector accounting principles in all essential respects. The legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts Revenue Payments Audit opinion on the legality and regularity of the revenue underlying the annual accounts IX. We consider that the revenue underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 is lawful and proper in all essential respects.
The basis for the failure to assess the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts X. Expenditure booked in 2014 to the detriment of headings 1 to 4 of the multiannual financial framework (3), covering operational appropriations, is substantially affected by errors.
Our estimated error rate for payments underlying the annual accounts is 4.4%.
Our conclusion is underpinned by the analysis of risk levels as set out in the synthesis report by the Commission.
Failure to give an opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts XI. According to our assessment, the facts underlying the annual accounts for the financial year ending 31 December 2014 are substantially affected by errors due to the importance of the facts described in the paragraph "The basis for the failure to give an opinion on the legality and regularity of payments underlying the annual accounts".
3. These headings shall be dealt with in Chapters 5 to 8 of this Annual Report.
10 September 2015 Mr Manuel da SILVA CALDEIRA President European Court of Auditors 12, rue Alcide De Gasperi, 1615 Luxembourg, LUXEMBOURG
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/13 DE COMMENTS FROM THE HOFE INTRODUCTION EU expenditure is an important instrument for achieving policy objectives 1.1.
EU expenditure is an important tool for achieving policy objectives.
Other important instruments include legislation, free movement of goods, services and capital and freedom of movement throughout the Union.
EU expenditure is on average 1.9% of total government expenditure in the EU Member States (see Figure 1.1).
According to the Treaty, our role is, inter alia, to assess whether the use of EU budget is in line with relevant laws and other legislation; to give our opinion on the EU's annual accounts; to report on the economy, efficiency and effectiveness (4) of EU expenditure; to submit opinions on legislative proposals with financial implications.
With our audit work to support the Statement of Assurance, we are fulfilling the first and second of these objectives.
This audit work allows us to identify risks that affect economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
It also provides an important input to the opinions we give on proposed financial rules.
(4) In Article 30(2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 347, 20.12.2012, p.
1), these terms are defined as follows: "The principle of economy requires that the resources used by the institution concerned in its [sic] activities be made available at the right time, in sufficient quantity and appropriate quality and with the lowest possible cost.
The principle of economic efficiency concerns the optimal relationship between the resources used and the results achieved.
The principle of effectiveness concerns the achievement of certain objectives and the desired results.
DE C 373/14 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Figure 1.1 — EU expenditure 2014 in each Member State as a share of total government expenditure Sources: European Union expenditure (European Commission accounting data, compiled by the Court).
Total government expenditure of Member States (Eurostat — General government financial statistics — General government revenue, expenditure and main aggregates — General government expenditure 2014) (http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/web/government-finance-statistics/data/database).
For country codes, see Annex 1.5.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.3.
In this chapter of the Annual Report, we provide background information on the Statement of Assurance and an overview of our audit approach (see Annex 1.1), our audit findings and conclusions; — we analyse the nature of the various risks associated with EU expenditure; — we describe the measures taken by the Commission following comments and recommendations on the reliability of the accounts we presented in previous annual reports (see Annex 1.2).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/15 DE COMMENTS FROM THE HOFES AUDIT DESTINATIONS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2014 The annual accounts did not show any material misstatements at 1.4.
Our comments refer to the consolidated annual accounts (5) (the ‘annual accounts') of the European Union for the financial year 2014.
The annual accounts were received by us together with the accounting officer's declaration of completeness on 23 July 2015 (6).
The annual accounts are accompanied by an analysis document on the financial statements "Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis(7)", which is not the subject of our audit opinion.
However, in accordance with audit principles, we have verified its consistency with the information contained in the annual accounts.
1.5.
The annual accounts (see extracts in Annex 1.3) show that the total liabilities as at 31 December 2014 amounted to EUR 220.7 billion compared to a total assets of EUR 162.7 billion.
The 2014 economic result shows a deficit of EUR 11.3 billion (see also points 2.12-2.13).
Our audit showed that the annual accounts did not show any material misstatements (see also Annex 1.2).
Our comments on the EU's financial management and management are set out in Chapter 2.
(5) The consolidated annual accounts shall consist of: (a) the consolidated annual accounts, which comprise the balance sheet (in which assets and liabilities are reported at the end of the year), the profit and loss account (in which income and expenses of the year are shown), the cash flow account (in which changes in the accounts affect cash and cash equivalents) and the changes in net assets, including the accompanying explanatory notes; (b) the aggregated financial statements covering revenue and expenditure for the financial year, together with explanations thereof.
(6) The provisional accounts were received by us on 31 March 2015, together with the accounting officer's declaration of completeness, which is the last possible date for transmission in accordance with the Financial Regulation (see Article 147 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012).
The final annual accounts were received eight days before the deadline set for transmission by Article 148 of 31 July.
The revised version of the analytical document on the financial statements of the Commission's Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis was submitted to the Court on 1 September 2015.
(7) See Guideline on recommended practice 2 "Financial Statement Discussion and Analysis" of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB).
C 373/16 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 1.7.
In 2014, the Commission amended the presentation of the annual accounts several times.
These amendments are intended to take account of the new Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF) and to further align it with international standards.
Considerable improvements were made in the presentation of certain explanatory notes to the financial statements (8).
Points affecting the annual accounts 1.8.
The following points affect the annual accounts: 1.8. a) The Commission has made progress in presenting the a) Explanatory note 6 on the annual accounts (on ‘protection of the EU budget'), as discussed in point 1.13 of our annual report on the financial year 2013 and in point 2 of this year's follow-up report (Annex 1.2).
The explanation now contains more targeted information.
For cohesion, it shows the extent to which corrections are made before expenditure is recorded, during implementation and at closure.
The explanatory note also includes, although not always in quantified form, a description of the impact of corrective measures (such as the creation of assigned revenue, expenditure withdrawn and replaced by Member States, etc.) on the EU budget (9). (b) The explanatory note 2.5.2 on pre-financing (pre-financing to Member States) shows that there is limited information available to the Commission on the use of resources available for shared management financial instruments (EUR 3.8 billion) and other aid schemes (EUR 3.6 billion).
In some cases, the Commission may need to make significant adjustments to the closure of the 2007-2013 programming period.
(8) Including a consolidated presentation of short-term and long-term assets and liabilities and a simplified presentation of segment reporting.
(9) In the explanatory note 6 to the 2015 financial statements, the Commission seeks to take account of the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union of June 2015 annulling decisions on financial corrections amounting to EUR 457 million.
In the explanatory note 2.10 ‘Reserves', these decisions are already treated as adjustments due to events after the closing date (judgment of the Court of Justice of 24 June 2015 in Joined Cases C-549/12 P and C-54/13 P annulment of two Commission decisions on an amount of EUR 94 million relating to ERDF programmes in Germany and judgment in Case C-263/13 P annulment of three Commission decisions on an amount of EUR 363 million for ERDF programmes in Spain).
These decisions were taken in connection with the expenditure under the 1994-1999 operational programmes.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION C 373/17 DE COMMENTS FROM THE HOFES The regularity of the transactions: Although our general examination results are stable, they indicate a material error rate.
We are examining the EU's revenue and expenditure to assess whether they are in line with relevant laws and other legislation.
We present our audit results on the revenue in Chapters 4 and on expenditure in Chapters 5 to 9 (see Table 1.1).
1.10.
Revenue was not significantly affected by errors (see point 4.26).
We still have a significant error rate in expenditure.
At 4.4 %, the estimated error rate was similar to the 2013 rate (4.5% (11) after taking the relevant corrective measures into account, see point 1.32 (10)).
Expenditure in the MFF heading 5 (administration) was not significantly affected by errors (see paragraph 9.15).
For all other operational expenditure headings, expenditure was substantially affected by errors (see points 5.32-5.33, 6.76-6.77, 7.72-7.73 and 8.26-8.27).
MFF category The population audited (billion euro) Estimated error rate in 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (UEL) Heading 1a 13.0 5.6 3.1 8.1 Heading 1b 55.7 5.7 3.1 8.2 Heading 2 57.5 3.6 2.7 4.6 Heading 4 7.4 2.7 0.9 4.4 Heading 5 8.8 0.5 0.1 0.9 (10) "Corrections made at source of applications that did not result in payment or reduced payments should not be compared with the amount of final payments.
(11) The estimated error rate we have calculated in the 2013 annual report was 4.7%.
The comparable estimated quota set out here is 0.2 percentage points lower as our new approach to quantify non-compliance with procurement rules has been used (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
C 373/18 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 EN MFR-heading Verified population (billion euro) Estimated error rate 2014 (%) Confidence interval (%) Lower error limit (LEL) Upper error limit (UEL) Heading 3, 6 and others 2.1 — — — 144.5 4.4 3.3 5.4 Chapter of the annual report Other (1) Total revenue Estimated error rate 2013 (%) — 4.5 0 143.9 0 0 0 (1) We do not provide a specific assessment and separate chapter for expenditure under the MFR-headings 3 (security and citizenship) and 6 (compensation payments) and for other expenditure (special instruments outside the MFR 2014-2020 such as the emergency reserve, the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, the European Union Solidarity Fund and the Flexibility Instrument).
However, audit work in these areas contributes to our overall conclusion on the expenditure for 2014. Source: European Court of Auditors.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.11.
Overall, the results of the examination have remained relatively stable over the last three years at a level well above our benchmark for materiality (see Figure 1.2).
REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 1.11.
The Commission notes that the error rate reported by the Court is an annual estimate which takes account of the accounting corrections of project expenditure made before the Court's audit is announced.
The Commission notes that it is bound by the Financial Regulation, which provides for the provision of its internal control system, including ‘appropriate treatment of risks related to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multiannual nature of the programmes and the nature of the payments concerned', in Article 32(2)(e).
In the 2014 synthesis report (COM(2015) 279 final), the Commission estimated the future impact of correction mechanisms to be EUR 2.7 billion, representing 1.9% of payments from the EU budget.
The Commission will continue to exercise its monitoring role by making financial corrections and recoveries at a level that is consistent with the level of irregularities and shortcomings identified throughout the period and also after the closure of the programmes.
DE 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/19 Figure 1.2 — The estimated error rate (most likely error rate, MLE — most likely error error) (2012-2014) (1) (1) The estimated error rate for 2012 and 2013 has been adjusted to take into account the new approach to quantify serious non-compliance with procurement rules (see point 1.13).
Source: European Court of Auditors.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.12.
EU expenditure consists predominantly of two types of expenditure programmes with very different risk patterns (12): — programmes based on payment entitlements, which depend on whether certain conditions are met; such programmes include grants for students and research grants (Chapter 5), direct aid to farmers (Chapter 7), direct budget support(13) (Chapter 8) and salaries and pensions (Chapter 9); — reimbursement schemes for eligible activities under which the EU reimburses eligible costs, which include research projects (Chapter 5), schemes for investment in regional and rural development (Chapters 6 and 7), training programmes (Chapter 6) and development projects (Chapter 8).
(12) Paragraphs 1.20-1.22 cover these different risks.
(13) Budget support payments are a contribution to the general budget of a State or to the resources allocated by it for a specific policy or objective (see also paragraphs 8.7 and 8.8).
THE COMMENTS FROM THE HOF A new audit approach...
For 2014, we have redesigned our approach to quantify serious breaches of procurement rules.
This approach clarifies how we assess the impact of these infringements.
In particular, we have introduced a proportional approach to the calculation of errors related to the modification of contracts.
1.14.
In order to ensure comparability of the results presented in this report, we have adjusted the figures for 2012 and 2013 in Table 1.1 and in Figures 1.2, 1.3, 1.4, 1.5 and 1.6 in line with this new approach.
Annex 1.4 contains the unadjusted historical data on the estimated error rates for the period 2009-2013.
The adjustment reduced the estimated overall error rate by 0.2% in 2013 and by 0.3% in 2012.
The adjustment does not affect the conclusions we reached in relation to those years and it remains a clearly significant error rate.
1.15.
In 2015, we will adapt our approach to cross compliance with the revised regulatory framework for the common agricultural policy.
While we will continue to report on the information the Commission is presenting on cross compliance, this element will no longer be the subject of our audit proceedings.
This year we noted numerous cross compliance errors with regard to one in four of the farms visited.
The share of these errors in our estimated total error rate is 0.2 percentage points (2013: 0.2)(14) and the error rate for the chapter ‘Natural resources' 0.6 percentage points (2013: 0.5).
The Commission welcomes the change in the Court's approach from 2015.
For 2014, it reiterates its view that cross compliance infringements do not affect the eligibility conditions for payments (see the Commission's reply to point 7.7).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/21 DE COMMENTS OF THE HOFES... and a new structure for our annual report 1.16.
As described in the general introduction (point 0.5.0.7), we have reshaped the chapter structure of our annual report.
For comparability purposes, the following (Figure 1.3) illustrates the results of the audit conducted last year if both the new chapter structure and the new approach to quantify infringements of procurement rules were used (see paragraphs 1.13 and 1.14).
We used these figures in Table 1.1.
Figure 1.3 — Reclassification of audit results for 2013 based on the structure of the annual report for the financial year 2014 and taking into account the new approach to quantify non-compliance with procurement rules Source: European Court of Auditors, taking into account the revised structure of the annual report and the new approach to quantify serious non-compliance with procurement rules.
1.17.
As shown in Figure 1.4, the cohesion area contributes most to our estimated 2014 error rate, followed by the areas of "Natural resources", "Competitiveness", and "Europe in the world".
This distribution is in line with our findings for 2013.
DE C 373/22 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 Figure 1.4 — Contribution to the estimated total error rate for 2014 according to the MFF heading Source: European Court of Auditors.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.18.
Eligibility errors in the reimbursement schemes have the main share of the errors detected for 2014 (see also points 1.20-1.22, Figure 1.5 and Figure 1.6). a) The estimated error rate for expenditure reimbursement is 5.5 % (2013: 5.6 %).
Typical errors in this area include: — inclusion of ineligible costs in cost statements, — ineligible projects, activities or beneficiaries, — serious infringements of procurement rules during the procurement process, — serious infringements of procurement rules during the execution of contracts (i.e. changes to contracts and additional work).
(a) The Commission has also identified similar problems in its audits.
During the 2007-2013 programming period, the Commission has made considerable efforts to identify the root causes of the problems and to implement corrective measures where appropriate.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/23 DE HOFES COMMENTS b) For payment entitlement-based programmes, the estimated error rate is 2.7% (2013: 3.0%).
Typical errors in this area include: — excessive area data by farmers; — administrative errors in payments made to farmers.
Figure 1.5 — Share of the estimated total error rate by type of error Source: European Court of Auditors.
1.19.
The figures for 2013 in Figure 1.5 were drawn up on the same basis as for 2014, i.e. using the approach described in point 1.13.
C 373/24 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION OF THE COMMENTS ON THE HOFES Type of expenditure and error rates are closely related to 1.20.
We have analysed the relationship between the type of expenditure and the risk of error.
The extent to which the correct calculation of payments to beneficiaries depends on information provided by beneficiaries themselves is characteristic of EU expenditure.
This applies to the largest category of expenditure schemes based on payment entitlements: land-related aid paid to farmers.
This is of particular importance in the area of reimbursement schemes: beneficiaries must indicate in their application that they are participating in an eligible measure and that they are incurred in costs which may be eligible for reimbursement.
All types of management are affected (15).
1.21.
Figure 1.6 is based on all audits carried out in relation to EU expenditure over the last two years for both the annual reports on the general budget and the European Development Funds (16).
The cash flows are grouped according to their nature.
The size of the circles in this figure represents the respective share of total expenditure, with their respective positioning along the 45-degree line indicating the corresponding estimated error rate; their colour indicates whether they are claims-based or reimbursement-based expenditures.
1.22.
This figure includes both elements of mandatory discretion (assessment of the impact of systems and risks related to the type of operation — see Annex 1.1, point 1) and empirical elements (measurement of estimated error rates over a biennium).
Firstly, this is intended to meet the wishes of our target group for more information on the different risk profiles, and secondly, to assist the Commission in taking action in areas where there are persistently high error rates.
1.20.
The integrated management and control system (InVeKoS), which includes the Land Parcel Identification System (LPIS), contributes significantly to avoiding errors and reducing the error rate (see point 7.32).
LPIS is established and maintained by the national authorities.
Payments to final beneficiaries are only possible after the data in the area identification system have been compared with the claim.
The LPIS means that the error rate for area-related aid is lower than for all other types of aid under shared management.
The Commission considers that Box 1.2 and Box 1.3 confirm this view.
(15) Direct management (budgets directly implemented by the European Commission), indirect management (non-EU partner countries, international organisations, etc.) and shared management (shared budget implementation between the Commission and Member States).
(16) Evaluation based on the same approach for both years (see points 1.13 and 1.14).
DE 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/25 Figure 1.6 — Link between type of operation, risk and estimated error rate in EU transactions (2013-2014) (1) The reimbursement for the heading ‘Europe in the world' includes projects financed by several donors, which in practice are subject to many characteristics of payment entitlement-based schemes and which have lower error rates.
C 373/26 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE HOFES The results in the various expenditure areas show different error patterns 1.23. "Competitiveness" (Chapter 5: The estimated error rate is 5.6%, higher than the corresponding results for 2013 (4.0%(17). Most expenditure is based on reimbursement and the errors in this area mainly reflect the different categories of ineligible costs (especially personnel costs, other direct costs and indirect costs).
1.24. "Cohesion" (Chapter 6: The estimated error rate is 5.7%, which is higher than the corresponding results for 2013 (5.3% (17)).
Almost all expenditure in this area is covered by reimbursement.
The main causes of error include serious infringements of procurement rules (around half of the estimated error rate), followed by ineligible costs in declarations of expenditure (more than a quarter of the estimated error rate).
Infringements of the State aid rules and ineligible projects constitute the remaining part of the errors.
1.25. ‘Natural resources' (Chapter 7): The estimated error rate is 3.6%, lower than the corresponding results for 2013 (4.4 % (17).
The European Agricultural Guarantee Fund (EAGF) accounts for more than three quarters of expenditure in this area, and this fund is less prone to error than the rural development sub-sector, for which we have long been seeing high error rates, particularly in the expenditure on the basis of reimbursement.
Overall, over-area or animal numbers by farmers contributed about one third of the estimated error rate.
Errors related to non-eligible beneficiaries, activities or expenditure accounted for the second highest proportion (around a quarter of the estimated error rate).
The remaining main shares are cross compliance infringements (one sixth) and administrative errors (one sixth).
1.23.
See the Commission's replies to Chapter 5 of the Annual Report (points 5.6-5.17).
1.24.
See the Commission's replies to Chapter 6 of the Annual Report (paragraphs 6.23-6.45 and 6.76).
1.25.
The lower error rate for the EAGF reflects the effectiveness of IACS and in particular LPIS when properly implemented, in order to avoid errors from the first moment of the process.
The Commission considers that IACS is a sound overall system for managing CAP expenditure.
See also the replies in points 1.15 and 1.20, points 7.15 to 7.19 and points 7.25 to 7.29.
(17) This comparison figure takes into account both the reclassification of budget lines to ensure that chapters reflect the MFF headings and the new approach to non-compliance with procurement rules.
See also Figure 1.3).
THE COMMENTS OF THE COURT 1.26. "Europe in the world" (Chapter 8): The estimated error rate is 2.7%, thus exceeding the corresponding results for 2013 (2.1%(18)(19).
Ineligible costs reimbursed by the Commission represent more than half of the total error rate.
Payments for unproven works and services or non-delivery represent a quarter of the total error rate.
The rest is due to lack of evidence (about one tenth of the estimated error rate), incorrect calculation of expenditure and non-compliance with procurement rules.
1.27. "Administration" (Chapter 9): The estimated error rate is 0.5%, which is a decrease compared to the corresponding results for 2013 (1.1%(18).
Most expenditure in this area concerns salaries, pensions and allowances paid by EU institutions and bodies.
A small number of errors in the allowances accounted for the largest share of the error rate in this area, which is not significant overall.
1.28.
As explained in the general introduction, we do not create a separate chapter for expenditure not covered by the MFF headings 1, 2, 4 and 5.
The remaining expenditure of EUR 2.1 billion (1.5 % of the expenditure we are examining) is therefore reported in this chapter (20).
Of the EUR 2.1 billion in total, EUR 0.5 billion is spent on expenditures carried out by and by ten agencies, which are the subject of our special annual reports(21).
The main errors identified in this area were the reimbursement of ineligible costs (see Box 1.1).
(18) This comparison figure takes into account both the reclassification of budget lines to ensure that chapters reflect the MFF headings and the new approach to non-compliance with procurement rules.
(19) The majority of the expenditure under the chapter "External relations, external assistance and enlargement" of the annual report for the financial year 2013 remained in the corresponding chapter for the MFF heading "Europe in the world"; a small proportion of this expenditure is now covered in the chapter "Economic, social and territorial cohesion". See also Figure 1.3.
(20) See footnote 1 in Table 1.1.
(21) European Judicial Cooperation Agency, European Agency for the Management of Large-Scale IT Systems in the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice, European Asylum Support Office, European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, European Food Safety Authority, European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, European Police College, European Police Office, European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
C 373/28 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION DE COMMENTS FROM THE HOFES Box 1.1 — Example of errors in reimbursement of costs for a project under the MFF heading 3 "Security and Citizenship" The subject of our sample was a payment from the Commission to a beneficiary who was the coordinator of a cooperation project under the "Fundamental Rights and Citizenship" programme.
The beneficiary public body assigned two permanent staff (officials) half-days to the project and charged part of its salaries in the project cost statement.
The costs of the staff of the Member State concerned are only justified if additional staff are recruited to replace the officials in their usual duties and thus actually incur costs.
As the beneficiary institution has not made provision for the replacement of officials, these costs are not eligible.
Overall, the ineligible costs reported by the beneficiary entity amounted to EUR 58 000 of the total cost of EUR 237 000.
We identified ineligible costs for eight of the 25 projects covered by the sample for the MFF heading 3, which were reimbursed by the Commission.
Box 1.1 — Examples of errors in reimbursement of costs for a project under the MFF heading 3 "Security and Citizenship" The Commission has been aware of the difficulties encountered by public bodies in complying with eligibility rules applicable to staff costs for public bodies (which hire other staff to replace the staff in their normal activities).
For this reason, the Commission amended the eligibility rules applicable to staff of public bodies from 2011 onwards, using the flexibility provided by the implementing rules of the Financial Regulation.
Therefore, the non-eligible costs identified by the Court in the grant mentioned above (staff costs for staff in public bodies that do not assign a replacement) would now be considered eligible.
1.29.
The estimated error rate for total shared management expenditure is 4.6% (2013: 4.9%(22)) and for all other operational expenditure(23) 4.6% (2013: 3.7%(22).
The estimated administrative expenditure error rate is 0.5 % (2013: 1.0 % (22) ).
(22) This comparison figure takes into account the new approach to non-compliance with procurement rules.
See also points 1.13 and 1.14.
(23) These expenditures are mainly covered by Chapters 7 and 8, but in part they are also those covered by Chapters 5 and 6.
The extrapolated error rate for shared management expenditure is based on the study of 687 transactions (from a population of EUR 113 billion).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/29 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION OF THE COMMENTS FROM THE HOFES There are many forms of corrective action with different effects 1.30.
Our study of "errors and corrections" aims to shed light on the complex mechanisms for implementing and recording corrective measures and to explain the various ways in which these mechanisms can be used to carry out our audit work.
In some areas of expenditure, new instruments will be available to the Commission when expenditure is incurred for the new programming period.
Corrective measures 1.31.
We are committed to taking account of corrective measures taken by the Member States and the Commission in advance of payment or our investigation.
We also note corrections that take place after our audit announcement. However, we cannot reduce the estimated error rate whenever the audit itself triggers the correction (24).
We shall review the application of these corrections (including recovery from beneficiaries and correction at project level) and, where appropriate, adjust the calculation of the error rate.
However, the impact of the corrective measures varies considerably depending on the expenditure area and the corrective action.
1.32.
The Commission and the authorities of the Member States had applied corrective measures in 24 of the operations examined in a sample in 2014, which directly affected the operation concerned and were relevant to our calculations.
These corrective measures resulted in a 1.1 percentage point reduction in our estimated error rate (2013: 1.6 percentage points), which is approximately EUR 1.6 billion.
Changes in the number of operations concerned and the impact on our estimated error rate are not an indication that corrective measures are more or less effective: since these measures apply to a relatively small proportion of our sample, fluctuations are expected from year to year.
1.30.
The Commission considers that the Court's annual representative error rate should be considered in relation to the Commission's corrective capacity as set out in the various annual activity reports and the synthesis report.
The Financial Regulation requires appropriate consideration of the risks associated with the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, taking into account the multi-annual nature of the control systems and the nature of the payments.
1.31.
Joint response to paragraphs 1.31 and 1.32: In the 2014 synthesis report (COM(2015) 279 final), the Commission estimated the future impact of correction mechanisms to be EUR 2.7 billion, which corresponds to 1.9% of payments from the EU budget.
For a breakdown of the figures by policy area, see Table 1 in the synthesis report.
The Commission underlines that all types of financial corrections and recoveries exclude illegal expenditure from the EU budget reimbursement (see explanatory note 6 on the financial statements).
(24) See points 1.19-1.37 of the Annual Report for 2012.
The Commission uses the terms 'financial corrections' and'recoveries' to cover a wide range of corrective measures applied both before and after the Commission's (or reimbursement) expenditure.
1.34.
Note 6.2.2 on the financial statements shows a total amount of EUR 3285 million for corrective measures in 2014.
Figure 1.7 shows how we classify the corrections made at the various stages of the expenditure cycle.
A quarter of all corrective measures in 2014 are corrections and recoveries ‘taken at source', i.e. before the Commission carried out the related payment (25).
A further quarter will take the form of withdrawals and replacement of expenditure on cohesion projects (either during implementation or at the conclusion of operational programmes). 1.33.
The Commission considers that the terms ‘financial corrections' and ‘recoveries' are used in accordance with the legal framework laid down in the Financial Regulation and the relevant sectoral legislation.
Further detailed information on the various preventive and corrective mechanisms provided for in the applicable legislation is provided in Note 6 on the EU's annual accounts and in the Communication on the protection of the EU budget.
(25) For the ERDF and the Cohesion Fund, the corrections reported in 2014 are ‘source' of EUR 430 million, of which 75% were already made in previous years.
DE 10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/31 Figure 1.7 — Classification of corrective measures taken in 2014 (*) Commission decisions (mostly decisions on conformity in the agricultural sector), corrections leading to the cancellation of commitments in the closure and recovery of beneficiaries. (**) Reduction of reimbursements and inclusion of new projects/costs during the implementation of the programmes and closures. (***) Corrections before payment in the context of shared management, ineligible amounts and credits in the area of direct and indirect management (listed in note 6 as ‘recoveries').
Source: Explanatory note 6 on the consolidated EU financial statements 2014 and underlying data.
For cohesion, the classification of amounts under ‘Exclusion before payment' and ‘Reductions' is based on an analysis of the corrections made during the period.
COMMENTS FROM THE COURT 1.35.
The corrective measures discussed in this section of the annual report shall also include the work of the Member States' authorities and the recovery operations carried out by the national authorities and the Commission.
C 373/32 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION 10.11.2015 DE COMMENTS FROM THE HOFES The impact of corrective measures is largely tangible at the time when the Commission accepts expenditure 1.36.
All relevant sectoral regulations in the area of shared management shall include rules on primary controls by national authorities or reductions in the amounts claimed by the final beneficiaries before the expenditure is certified.
In some cases, national authorities also agree to reduce or cancel certain costs which are constantly included in the declarations due to errors with long-term implications (such as ongoing payments under a contract where an error in the procurement rules is present).
Such adjustments may have a measurable impact on the amount of refund requested for individual projects or on the aid paid to individual farmers, and the correction will then help to reduce our estimated error rate.
1.37.
In the area of direct and indirect management, the ‘recoveries' covered by the Commission include deductions of amounts not eligible for the cost applications before the payment is authorised.
The eligibility of the amounts is determined by examination of the file of the available documents or by the results of the checks carried out (see also Figure 1.7).
This also allows us to reduce our estimated error rate.
Conformity decisions ("financial corrections") are often made on a flat-rate basis.
Generally, they relate to system deficiencies rather than to errors at the level of the final beneficiaries.
In the rarest cases, they result in recovery of the farmers concerned.
Such corrective measures are an incentive for Member States to improve their management and control systems.
They contribute to the legality and regularity of operations at final beneficiaries level if they lead to constant improvements in the cost statements accepted by paying agencies (see boxes 1.2 and 1.3).
The Commission services also carry out recovery ‘at source' by deducting ineligible expenditure (as determined in previous or current cost statements) from payments made.
1.38.
Financial corrections made by the Commission on agricultural expenditure are intended to protect the EU budget and are imposed on Member States.
They do not directly result in the recovery of farmers, since the Commission does not pay the final beneficiaries directly but reimbursements of payments made by Member States to farmers.
However, if these incorrect payments are identifiable as a result of the conformity clearance procedure, the Commission would expect Member States to pursue them by means of recovery measures against the beneficiaries.
See answer to Box 1.3.
Payers implement conformity decisions by reducing future Commission applications for reimbursement for payments to farmers.
The Commission shall record the full amount paid out to farmers as expenditure, i.e. the adjustment shall not entail the reduction in the amount of the payments recorded.
Instead, the difference between payments to farmers and refunds to paying agencies is recorded as assigned revenue available to finance agricultural expenditure (26).
More than two thirds of the 2014 Cohesion "financial corrections" consist in replacing new expenditure,...
1.40.
In the cohesion field, ‘financial corrections' are cases where the authorities in the Member States reduce expenditure declared and replace expenditure by new expenditure, in more than two thirds of the total amount covered.
Some "reductions" do not identify any concrete projects as being withdrawn.
Instead, Member States report additional projects and thus receive a de facto lower co-financing rate.
1.40. The Commission considers that any financial corrections, including those allowing Member States to contribute new projects and new expenditure to reuse the corrected amounts, protect the EU budget from ill-conceived expenditure and encourage Member States to recover from beneficiaries (and thus contribute to improving management and control systems).
Nevertheless, the deterrent effect of net financial corrections, where Member States cannot reuse the corrected and recovered amounts and thus lose funds, is certainly higher.
(26) For example, if an agricultural paying agency is subject to a 5% financial correction and makes payments of EUR 100 million to farmers, the Commission will refund it EUR 95 million, but the Commission will record expenditure of EUR 100 million, which will be offset by assigned revenue of EUR 5 million.
C 373/34 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION OF THE COMMENTS OF THE COURT... while net corrections are less frequent 1.41.
If a replacement is not possible, the corrections for the Member State concerned will result in a loss of EU funds (27), which, although relatively rare, may occur if Member States are unable to provide sufficient eligible expenditure and if a replacement is no longer possible (28) or allowed (29).
The Commission expects that, as a result of changes to the legislation, net corrections will be applied more widely in the future.
Following the example of agriculture, the legislator has decided to apply a similar mechanism of net financial corrections for the 2014-2020 programming period to cohesion policy.
This will give Member States an additional incentive to prevent or detect and remedy serious deficiencies in the management and control systems before the financial statements are sent to the Commission.
Otherwise, and if serious deficiencies continue to be identified by the Commission or the Court after the financial statements have been sent, the Commission must make net financial corrections under the conditions laid down in the relevant regulations, which means that the funds are lost for the Member State.
The Commission also considers that, under shared management, all financial corrections and recoveries have a negative impact on national budgets, irrespective of the method of implementation.
In order to avoid a loss of EU funding, the Member State must replace non-eligible expenditure with additional eligible operations.
This means that the Member State with its national budget must bear the financial consequences of the loss of EU co-financing of expenditure considered to be ineligible, unless it recovers the amounts from each beneficiary.
(27) Either as a reduction in payments or as a return to the EU budget leading to assigned revenue (see Figure 2.2).
(28) After completion of the programmes.
(29) In the event of disagreement between Member States and the Commission (see point 1.25(b) of the 2012 annual report).
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union REPLY OF THE COMMISSION C 373/35 DE COMMENTS FROM THE HOFES In 2014, the Commission and Member States applied all these forms of corrective measures 1.42.
Box 1.2-1.4 illustrates different types and effects of corrective measures. Box 1.2 — Example of improving management and control systems — Greece: cleaning up the land identification system The Commission has taken steps to improve the identification system for agricultural parcels (LPIS) which serves as a basis for payments to agricultural holdings, such as the single payment scheme (the largest single EU expenditure scheme).
This process took place at various stages and resulted in the ‘permanent grassland' covered by the Greek LPIS, which fell from 3.6 million hectares in 2012 to 1.5 million hectares in October 2014.
Non-compliant applications for "permanent grassland" that is not eligible for EU aid have been a key factor in our estimated error rate for "natural resources" for several years.
We took into account the impact of adjustments in respect of individual payments made to final beneficiaries, which were the subject of our sample of operations carried out by the EAGF and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
Another effect is that the paying agency rejected many non-eligible applications, which resulted in the corresponding expenditure falling out of our sample.
Box 1.2 — Example of improving management and control systems — Greece: cleaning up the area identification system Other examples of the positive impact of action plans are given by the Court in Chapter 7.
Action plans are implemented whenever deemed necessary and the Commission monitors their implementation with great care and reports on the corrective actions taken in the annual activity report of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development.
The area identification system shall prevent beneficiaries from claiming claims for land which does not exist or which does not meet the eligibility criteria or for land for which claims have already been made by another beneficiary.
If properly implemented, it is a very effective tool to reduce the error rate.
It covers 75% of CAP expenditure.
As the Annual Activity Report 2014 of the Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development shows, the error rates for area-related payments are lower than for other measures.
C 373/36 COMMISSION REPLY OF THE EUROPEAN UNION 10.11.2015 DE COMMENTS FROM THE COURT Box 1.3 — Example of corrections resulting from conformity clearance procedures (30) — Conformity Decision 47 and its consequences for French farmers In 2014, France accepted an adjustment of EUR 1.1 billion (984 million for the EAGF and EUR 94 million for the EAFRD)(31).
The national authorities stated that this would not have any impact on farmers and that the amount would be disputed from the national budget.
In previous annual reports, we pointed out that such a procedure does not encourage beneficiaries to correct errors (32).
The main reasons for the correction were shortcomings in LPIS/GIS (695 million euros) and the overshoot of the ceiling for payment entitlements, resulting in excessive payments to farmers (141 million euros).
Another reason was, albeit to a lesser extent, violations of the cross compliance obligation to notify animal movements in time (123 million euros).
All these reasons are related to payments made between 2009 and 2013.
No adjustment was made for 2014, and the non-compliance with the ceiling for payment entitlements and the non-eligible areas covered by the LPIS of France contributed 0.3 percentage points to our estimated error rate for ‘Natural resources' this year.
Box 1.3 — Example of adjustments resulting from conformity clearance procedures — Conformity Decision 47 and its consequences for French farmers Under shared management, Member States are responsible for ensuring that the control systems function properly.
The EUR 1.1 billion financial correction will be repaid to the EU budget in three annual instalments (2015, 2016 and 2017).
The Commission notes that, following the closure of the accounts of the year and after a counter-disciplinary phase in which the Member State concerned can make its own arguments and calculations, it is very rare that a financial correction is already decided in the following year of the expenditure concerned, due to the nature of the conformity clearance procedure which is applied ex-post.
An ongoing conformity clearance procedure will protect the EU budget for 2014.
Box 1.4 — Example of corrections that resulted in additional expenditure: ESF — Romania In our annual reports on the financial years 2012 and 2013, we pointed out corrective measures in Romania.
In 2013, we were able to reduce our estimated error rate in relation to a number of Romanian projects of the European Social Fund (ESF), as national authorities had identified the impact of the corrections at project level.
This was the case in 2014.
Some of the projects we have examined continue to be flawed by problems not covered by the corrections.
In its Annual Activity Report for 2014, the Directorate-General for Employment, Social Affairs and Inclusion (DG EMPL) points out that it continues to follow the implementation of the agreed action plan.
The financial corrections made do not necessarily mean that Romania will receive less EU funding, as Member States can make use of the possibility of claiming a larger amount of expenditure (33).
(30) A multi-year procedure allowing recovery of amounts paid to Member States where such payments have been in breach of EU rules or where there are deficiencies in the Member State's management and control systems.
See also point 7.59.
(31) France subsequently appealed to the Court of Justice of the European Union against the decision to impose the financial correction.
(32) See points 1.26 and 1.32 of the 2012 Annual Report.
(33) This would in practice be equivalent to a reduction in the EU co-financing rate.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/37 REPLY OF THE COMMISSION OF THE COMMENTS FROM THE HOFES In its reporting on corrective measures, the Commission does not always quantify their different impacts,...
1.43.
Note 6 on the annual accounts is largely a voluntary disclosure of information not required under accounting rules.
A significant part of this information does not come from accounting systems.
The explanatory note provides a description of the different effects of the different corrective adjustments on the EU budget, but not always in quantified form.... and further improvements would allow a better analysis 1.44.
The Commission's capacity to improve the quality of expenditure is not only linked to the amounts concerned but also to their impact.
A rigorous assessment of the effects of corrective measures requires better information on the type of corrected error and on the way in which corrections are made (34).
When assessing the impact of their corrective action, the relevant Commission Directorates-General shall make the necessary adjustments to the figures set out in note 6 (see point 1.55).
The Commission's synthesis report confirms errors in the operations to a substantial extent 1.45.
Each Directorate-General of the Commission shall draw up an annual activity report.
This report shall include — a report on the achievement of the main policy objectives (referred to in Chapter 3) — a management report from the Director-General to the College of Commissioners and — a statement by the Director-General to ensure that the financial information contained in the report is properly presented and that the transactions falling within his/her area of responsibility are lawful and proper.
1.43.
The legislator has provided the Commission with the financial correction instrument to ensure that unlawful expenditure is not financed from the EU budget.
These financial corrections relate mainly to system deficiencies which lead to a risk of error.
It is the responsibility of the Member States and not of the Commission to identify incorrect amounts and recover them from the beneficiaries.
If this does not happen, EU funds will be replaced by national funds, as national budgets will have to bear the burden of financial corrections.
1.44.
Several services have duly adjusted their figures in the explanatory note 6 on the protection of the EU budget to provide an estimate of future corrections in relation to their specific circumstances.
(34) See points 1.13-1.15 of the Annual Report for the financial year 2013.
C 373/38 Official Journal of the European Union 10.11.2015 DE HOFES' COMMENTS 1.46. The synthesis report contains a summary of this information and a statement that the Commission, by adopting the synthesis report, assumes overall political responsibility for the management of the EU budget.
1.47.
This section of the chapter contains the results of our analysis of the Annual Activity Reports of the Directorates-General and the Commission's Synthesis Report(35).
The focus is on the consistency and adequacy of the Commission's estimates in relation to — the error rate at the time of the Commission's reimbursement or payment of its own expenditure (the Commission refers here to 'risk amount'), — the extent to which errors are remedied by subsequent corrections (the Commission refers here to its 'correction capacity' or 'estimated future corrections' (36)).
The Directors-General shall report annually on the regularity of 1.48.
If the Directors-General are unable to provide a reliable account for a significant part of the expenditure, they make a reservation (see Box 1.5).
The Director-Generals should proceed in such a way that, if an event has occurred which has a serious impact on the reputation of the Commission, or, the impact of the estimated error rates, less financial corrections already made and recoveries, is still essential.
(35) The Commission's synthesis report and annual activity reports can be found on the Commission's website: Synthesis report: http://ec.europa.eu/atwork/planning-and-preparing/synthesis-report/index_en.htm, Annual activity reports: http://ec.europa.eu/atwork/synthesis/aar/index_en.htm.
(36) See synthesis report, footnotes 10 and 13, pages 14 and 15.
10.11.2015 Official Journal of the European Union C 373/39 DE HOFES COMMENTS Box 1.5 — Reservations in the Annual Activity Reports 2014 In 2014, the Directors-General made 20 quantified reservations as compared to 17 in 2013.
The increase in the total number of reservations is due to three new reservations from the Directors-General of the Directorates-General for Communications Networks, Content and Technology (DG CONNECT) (37) and Neighbourhood Policy and Enlargement Negotiations (DG NEAR)(38)(39) and the Service for Foreign Policy Instruments (FPI) (40); — the division of a recurring reservation into two reservations (41); — the abolition of a reservation (42).
In 2014, the expenditure amount with a reservation decreased from 2.4 billion euros in 2013 to 2.3 billion euros in 2014 (43).
1.49.
The European Parliament resolution on the 2013 discharge(44) calls on the Commission to "further clarify the calculation of the risk amount by explaining the estimated impact of correction mechanisms on that figure".
(37) Reservation concerning the Information and Communication Technology Policy Support Programme (ICT) programme of countries participating in the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP), as the residual error rate is above 2% (2,94 %).
(38) reservation concerning indirect management by the beneficiary countries, since the residual error rate is above 2% (2,67 %).
(39) The problems identified in the 2013 Annual Report have given rise to a new reservation on the basis of reputational reasons from DG NEAR (former DG ELARG), see point 7.16 of the 2013 Annual Report).
(40) Reservation on expenditure under the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP), as the residual error rate is above 2% (2.13 %).
(41) The Directorate-General for Regional Policy and Urban Development (DG REGIO) divided its recurring reservation on the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)/Cohesion Fund (CF)/ Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) into two reservations, one on the ERDF/CF and another on the IPA.
(42) The Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety (DG SANTE) has lifted its reservation regarding the programmes for the eradication and monitoring of animal diseases in the food and feed policy area.
(43) See synthesis report, Annex 2.
(44) Report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the financial year 2013, Section III — Commission and executive agencies 2014/2075 (DEC) (A8-001/2015).
THE COMMENTS OF THE COURT 1.50.
In accordance with the request of the discharge authority, the Commission further developed its internal guidance (45) on the presentation of information in Annual Activity Reports in 2014.
The Directors-General are now to present an "average error rate detected" (46).
The application of this error rate to the total payments of the year leads to the calculation of the ‘risk amount'(47).
The synthesis report shows this amount together with the estimate of the future correction capacity of ex post controls carried out by the Commission. The Commission acknowledges that the expenditure is substantially affected by errors,...
1.51.
In the 2014 synthesis report, the Commission identifies the ‘risk amount' as a range of between EUR 3.7 and 5 billion.
This represents between 2,6 % and 3,5 % of the payments for 2014(48) covered by the synthesis report.
These figures show that total expenditure is largely affected by errors.... however, points to the estimated impact of future corrections 1.52.
The 2014 synthesis report provides an estimated total of estimated future corrections (correction capacity).
Based on the corrections recorded over the last six years(49), the Commission estimates that in the coming years it will be able to identify and correct ‘errors in the total amount of around EUR 2700 million' (50).
(45) Standing Instructions for the 2014 Annual Activity Reports (SEC(2014) 553).
(46) This is the error rate detected or estimated at the time of payment (not the residual error rate), i.e. without adjustment due to errors corrected afterwards.
